Guardian - 28.10.82

Tobacco firms agree health aid

By David Reynolds
Social Services Correspondent
The tobacco industry has agreed to contribute £1.2 million
to research into the effects of
smoking, under a voluntary
agreement with the Department
of Health. The agreement will
cover advertising and packag-
ing on cigarette cartons, adver-
tisements in cinemas and an
increase in space devoted to
health warnings.

The money will be used to fund
research into smoking’s effects
on health, including lung can-
cer, heart disease and respira-
tory problems. It will also go
towards research on the impact
of tobacco advertising on young
people.

The agreement follows months
of negotiations between officials
from the Department of Health
and representatives of the major
tobacco companies. The sum is
less than the £2 million the De-
partment of Health was hoping
for, but ministers are pleased
with the outcome.

“We are delighted that the in-
dustry has agreed to contribute
to research into the effects of
smoking,” said a Department of
Health spokesman. “This is an
important step towards raising
awareness of the dangers of smok-
ing.”

The agreement includes provi-
sions for annual reviews of the
level contributions this year by tougher health warnings. The British Association
ministers.  British Medical Association, which has campaigned for years
Some of the research it will fund said that the industry’s con- which is concerned with issues
will be carried out by the Insti- tribution was “a start” but that relating to smoking, said that
tute for Cancer Research and the much more needed to be done.  the agreement was a step in the
Medical Research Council. The  “The industry has been slow to right direction.
research will focus on the effects acknowledge its responsibility   “We hope this will encourage
of smoking on children, the link for the health problems caused other companies to follow suit,”
between smoking and heart dis- by tobacco,” said a spokesman. said Mr Clarke.

ease, and the impact of smok- Researchers are also looking  The industry’s contribution
ing on pregnant women. into the effects of passive smok- will be used to fund research
ing. The Department of Health into the health risks associated
The agreement includes provi- has been under increasing pres- with smoking, as well as to pro-
sions for annual reviews of the sure from anti-smoking groups duce public information mate-
level contributions this year by to introduce tougher regulations rials and advertising campaigns.
ministers.  on tobacco advertising. The De-   The Department of Health is
partment of Health has already also considering introducing fur-
Daily Mirror, October 28, 1982 announced plans to ban tobac- ther restrictions on tobacco ad-
co advertising on television and vertising in the future.

Bigger health warnings in big push to curb smoking for smokers

The British Medical Association
today called for a complete ban
on all forms of cigarette adver-
tising.

Mr Kenneth Clarke, Minister
for Health, said that the agree-
ment was “a significant step”
towards reducing the incidence
of smoking-related diseases.

“We want to make sure that
smokers are fully aware of the
dangers of their habit,” he said.
“This agreement will help us to
achieve that.”

The agreement includes provi-
sions for annual reviews of the
level contributions this year by
tighter health warnings. The
British Medical Association,
which has campaigned for years
to curb smoking, said that
the agreement was a step in the
right direction.

“We hope this will encourage
other companies to follow suit,”
said Mr Clarke.

The industry’s contribution
will be used to fund research
into the health risks associated
with smoking, as well as to pro-
duce public information mate-
rials and advertising campaigns.
Government's announcement
marks a victory for the BMA
which has been campaigning for
years to curb tobacco advertis-
ing.

The British Medical Associa-
tion said that the agreement was
“a start” but that much more
needed to be done.

Bigger health warnings will
appear on cigarette packets next
year under a deal between the
Government and the tobacco in-
dustry. The warnings, which will
be larger and more prominent
than those currently used, will
include information about the
health risks associated with smok-
ing.

The agreement also includes
provisions for tougher restric-
tions on cigarette advertising
and a ban on tobacco advertis-
ing on television.

The Government is to launch
a major public awareness cam-
paign to educate people about
the dangers of smoking. The
campaign will include advertise-
ments in newspapers, magazines
and on billboards.



