AUGUSTA, GA.                                    CHRONICLE                      FEB. 18, 1969

Federal reducing diet?

The prospect for reducing the       Many will view this prospect
overweight federal bureaucracy by   cynically, no doubt, in the wake of
decentralization, which President  controversies over operating
Nixon raised during his campaign,   free choice plans and of a bureau-
was mentioned again the other day cratic suggestion that cigarette ad-
in an announcement of the vice   vertising be banned on television
president’s future duties.          — possibly in an unconstitutional
Vice President Agnew will su-  manner — by mereedict
pervise a new Office of Inter-gov- Nevertheless, as a promise is a
ernmental Relations, which, the    promise, and Mr. Nixon is now on
President said, will include among   the record on decentralization. If
its duties “formulation of proposals he means it, by genuinely restoring
to broaden and accelerate the     power local and state governments,
dispersal of authority . . . an or-  will do during a place in history,
derly transfer of appropriate func- regardless of anything else he may
tions to state and local govern-   or may not do.
ment.



MACON, GA.                                    NEWS                      FEB. 18, 1969

Long Nose of the FCC

Among bureaucrats the craze for    ettes not having been outlawed,
running practically everything has  there is no legal basis for FCC to
found its latest expression in the impose its own brand of censor-
Federal Communications Commis-   ship.
sion’s action, Congress permit- Excessive consumption of coffee
ting to ban cigarette advertising may be harmful to some person;
on television and radio.          ditto beer and wine. Nevertheless,
Every cigarette package carries no bureaucracy has attempted to
its own warning. Time is provided  bar this type of advertising from
on the air for admonitions about   the air.
the perils of cigarettes, and news- What the FCC offers is another
papers duly keep the public ap- example of what President Eisen-
prised of developments.           hower once declared as “Washing-
Congress has seen no need for ton’s going its long nose where it
another noble experiment. Cigar-  has no right to be.”



015859/4