ATHOL, MASS. NEWS 2-8-69

Cigarette Ads

The Federal Communications Commission would like to bar cigarette advertising from television and radio. By a six to one vote, the commission adopted a regulation banning the advertising and it will become effective unless Congress allows the present labeling provision to lapse on July 7.

The communications holds power over TV and radio because of the necessity for licensing. Both use the public airways and have exclusive rights to assigned channels in their own territories. They are, therefore, not in the same position as newspapers and other publications, which have no such exclusive rights and do not make use of public property.

Nevertheless, since TV and radio are allowed to carry advertising, and since cigarettes are legal, the commission’s position is unsound. It could be possible to advertise anything that can legally be offered for sale.

On a selfish basis, newspapers might be inclined to approve the commission's plan. Television took in about 264 million dollars from cigarette manufacturers last year and newspaper income from them has declined to a trickle. But the prin- ciple involved is more important than this.

If the FCC is so desperately concerned about the use of cigarettes, it should err ad that all sale of them be prohibited.



HUTCHINSON, KANS. NEWS 2-8-69

Cigaret Advertising

Congress in 1963 authorized the Federal Trade Commission to print a health notice on every package of cigarets sold. At the same time, as a sop to the tobacco industry, it ordered there should be no restrictions on cigaret advertising until June 30, 1969.

That date is now approaching. The issue is joined by the fact the Federal Communications Commission has proposed the complete ban of radio and television advertising. If Congress lets it have authority in this field.

So another battle royal will be joined in coming weeks. The good guys will argue that since cigarets have been proved a serious health menace, the advertising of them or broadcast media should be halted to keep the young in particular from being enticed.

The bad guys will refute the charge as best they can. Cigaret advertisers provide hundred millions with several hundred million dollars annually and this thing are not going to give up willingly.

The broadcasters have other factions working in their favor. Several members of Congress have radio or TV interests and still more close personal friends. Big name has even bowed. This campaign run into the world. There is a conflict of interest, but it’s difficult to determine where the public good lies.

The FTC will argue that its job is to protect the public health, not to worry about the economic consequences of its actions. The broadcasters will contend that Congress gave them a right to advertise cigarets and that they should be allowed to exercise that right until June 30, 1969.



0112408