MT. VERNON, N.Y. ARGUS FEB. 8, 1969

Will TV Give Up Smoking?

It’s UNFAIR whether the Federal Communications Commission possesses the legal authority to ban cigarette commercials on radio and television. The question is not merely academic by extending a law, due to expire June 30, that bars any government agency from regulating cigarette advertising.

Yet, no matter what Congress does, the FCC's tentative recommendation is certain to fire a national debate that is unlikely to cool down in a hurry. For the companion question is whether, barring some compulsion, the broadcasting industry should ban or curtail cigarette commercials on a voluntary basis.

In one sense, there is a precedent. Broadcasters have long been sensitive to policy against liquor advertising, presumably to avoid encouraging a habit that is potentially ruinous for some individuals.

BUT THE ANALOGY is imprecise. Liquor is pretty much a regulated industry, at least at the retail level, where strict licenses and regulations are applied. The reverse of bottled spirits produces intoxication that represents a menace to society. Cigarettes are quite another story.

ASHEVILLE, N.C. CITIZEN FEB. 8, 1969

Will TV’s Cigarette Commercials Or Bluffing?

In the television advertising process radio-television blurring is complicated by a complex tangle of contracts and agreements among program sponsors, networks, stations and advertisers. The FCC has just proposed a rule that would require all cigarette commercials to be accompanied by an on-screen disclaimer.

The rule, as it stands, would apply only to commercials appearing on television. It would not apply to radio spots, which now account for approximately 20 per cent of the total cigarette advertising expenditure.

The FCC’s action is intended to provide consumers with more information about the health hazards associated with smoking. The proposed rule requires that a warning be ap-peared as taken to create the sell, i.e., the first 15 seconds to be read, with the text visible enough so that it can be seen by viewers in most homes.

The new rule would apply to commercials now on file with the FCC, and to future spots.