NEW YORK WORLD-TELEGRAM AND SUN
New York, New York
May 17, 1955

Probers Fail to Find Cigaret-Cancer Link

A year’s preliminary investigation has failed to turn up any definite link between cigarettes and lung cancer, according to the chairman of the research committee set up by the Tobacco Institute to examine the problem.

Dr. Clarence Cook Little, who is directing the nine-member committee's scientific in quiries said here yesterday the relationship between smoking and lung cancer remains un answered.

The problem, he added, will not be solved by “statistical association” that is, the number of victims of lung cancer among smokers has generally agree to have and "prove" cause and effect.

[Image of a man]
DR. CLARENCE COOK LITTLE

NEW YORK DAILY MIRROR
New York, New York
May 17, 1955

No Proof Cigs Cause Cancer

The nation’s leading researcher on the effects of tobacco on the human system said Monday that after a year of study scientists have agreed on one thing—that no single factor, like smoking, air pollution or what you eat, can be blamed for lung cancer.

DR. CLARENCE C. LITTLE, founder of the Jackson Memorial Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Me., and scientific director of the Tobacco Research Com pany, reviewed the first year’s work conducted at 32 hospitals and institutions in 14 states with a $1,500,000 grant from tobacco manufacturers.

Progress has been made in a wide range of studies, including examination of human body cells to find out how tobacco smoke, or “tar,” affects the cellular structure. The work is being done by Dr. Little’s group and by others at the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard Medical School, Johns Hopkins Hospital and the Uni versity of California.

Dr. Little said that while there has been a rise in lung cancer among smokers, it is impossible to say whether this is due to smoking or some other factor.

“We have not found any evidence that smoking causes cancer,” he stated. “It is possible that some day we will, but at the present time we cannot make that assertion.”

PUBLICITY RECORD
New York, New York
May 23, 1955

CIGARETTES ON UP-BEAT AGAIN

The relationship between cigarette smoking and lung cancer is as obscure as it was a year ago, according to Dr. Clarence Cook Little, chairman of the scientific advisory board of the Tobacco Research Commit tee. Since there are so many possible causes of cancer, it is impossible that no one element, such as some found in cigarettes, might ever be blamed as a positive, public cause. As far as the American pub lic is concerned, it seems to have partial ly forgotten the heights they reached a couple of years ago. Like anybody who isn’t sure, but is willing to be cautious, the segment of the population has shifted to filter-tip cigarettes. In this area up to the cigarette manufacturers to regain their positional attack on original “moral” opposition at the smoked portion of all types has played a part in steady advances.

However, it is quite possible that the type of filter used—the cellophane or paper—may be just as harmful, or even more so, than the ordinary cigarette.

Dr. Little said that the Tobacco Research Committee will continue its work and report again next year. He also stated that the committee has been able to make considerable progress in understanding the nature of cancer itself.