“Among criticisms made by scientists of this study are:

*1. A mere numerical association such as Drs. Hammond and Horn claim does not establish any cause and effect relationship.

*2. The survey is limited to smoking habits and therefore does not rule out any number of possible other factors in present-day living that may influence death rates.

*3. The survey is shown to be non-representative of the national population.

*4. The small number of deaths from lung cancer—at most, 285 out of 8,106 deaths—makes questionable any conclusions drawn, especially since the sampling methods of the survey are not statistically sound.

“Statistical studies of this nature can at best indicate areas that require study. This has been done, and scientists devoted to such study have recently reported their inability to identify any cancer-causing substance in tobacco smoke derivatives.”

“It would be tragic if an over-publicized allegation that lacks scientific support were to divert and impede public or private support of sound research in such an important field of health."

01138186

Cancer Scare, Production Increase Reduce Domestic Cigarette Sales

Most of the funds for this work being contributed by the American Tobacco Institute and various tobacco associated and user organizations. The state house organizations in the list are making contributions.

A statement within the Uni-tors Board has determined the aims of special interest are those
states Tobacco Committee chairman, ed States Public Health Service Board has determined the aims of special interest are those
to mainly the further decline in search program, solicits and “smoke” and other organs of subjects of
cigarette sales. The committee said that the recent survey on cancer and smoking habits, which is now being publicized, has caused a great deal of anxiety among smokers and their families.

The committee comprises Dr. C. Everett Koop, former Surgeon General; Dr. Luther T. Terry, former Surgeon General; Dr. John Seffrin, president-elect of the American Society of Clinical Oncology; and Dr. Richard Klausner, director of the National Cancer Institute.

The Tobacco Committee chairman said that the recent survey on cancer and smoking habits, which is now being publicized, has caused a great deal of anxiety among smokers and their families.

“We are concerned about the impact this survey will have on public health,” he said. “It is important that people understand that there is no scientific evidence to support the claim that smoking causes cancer.”

The committee chairman added that the survey was conducted by researchers who had a vested interest in promoting anti-smoking messages.

“These researchers were paid by the tobacco industry to conduct this survey,” he said. “They have a clear bias against smoking.”

The Tobacco Committee chairman concluded that the survey was flawed and should not be used to justify government regulation of tobacco products.

“This survey is an example of how science can be manipulated to serve political agendas,” he said. “It is important that people understand that there is no scientific evidence to support the claim that smoking causes cancer.”

The Tobacco Committee chairman added that the survey was conducted by researchers who had a vested interest in promoting anti-smoking messages.

“These researchers were paid by the tobacco industry to conduct this survey,” he said. “They have a clear bias against smoking.”

The Tobacco Committee chairman concluded that the survey was flawed and should not be used to justify government regulation of tobacco products.

“This survey is an example of how science can be manipulated to serve political agendas,” he said. “It is important that people understand that there is no scientific evidence to support the claim that smoking causes cancer.”

JOURNAL-HERALD
Jaynes, De.
12/30/81