4
Section D
Lopez slated
to defend title

Nancy Lopez, the golfing gal with the aching gold-
en arm, is returning to Westchester County
where she captured her first LPGA tournament title
two years ago. Ms. Lopez will defend her title at the
$30,000 New Rochelle May Wine Country
Classic Championship at Wykagyl Country
Club in New Rochelle May 29-31.

“We are proud again to be associated with a
major LPGA tournament,” said Curtis H.
Morse, president of sponsoring Merrill Lynch, Inc.,
and chairman of the Wykagyl Club.

The tournament benefits field education of the
County Children’s Fund and the Westchester
Children's Services of Westchester.

Ms. Lopez captured the Golden Apple title in
1975 with a record total of 283. She followed up
with a second round score of 67, which was later
runner-up to JoAnne Carner. The tournament is
believed to be the greatest single fund-raising event
by a woman’s professional sports organization in
the state and is completely dominating the LPGA tour
schedule.

Tickets of attendance information are available
through the Tournament office, phone (914) 632-5800.
J. Robert Evans is tournament chairman with Tom H.
Mayer as co-chairman of the executive committee and
Russell W. Cogate and A. Jason Bass as vice chair-
men.

The tournament directors are Ken Young and P.P.
Douglas, Jr. Anthony F. Cole, Bon Carbone and
GUIDO CARINI 03/21/85 Nancy Lopez returns to county



GREENWICH NEWSPAPERS
Wednesday, March 7, 1979
C3012285 A

EXT. ASCD, KY.
PAT. PEND.
NEW YORK METROPOLITAN AREA

LPGA tournament set
of Wykagyl CC

NEW ROCHELLE - LPGA star Nancy
Lopez will return to Westchester County
to defend her title at the New Rochelle
May Wine Country Classic Championship
at Wykagyl CC, May 29-31. The tourna-
ment is one of the leading professional golf
events in the area and Ms. Lopez is one of
the circuit’s best.

Leading the way for Nancy
Lopez will be her husband, Ray Snyder,
who has been her constant companion and
caddy since she started her career. The
couple live near Dallas and are expecting a
baby head of schedule. They are returning to
the area with their golden retriever com-
panion, “Buddy.” - Los Angeles Golden Times

[Image of people]