Free Goods and Samples
A Menace to the Tobacco Distributor

The following is an article by NATO (national Chewers Is valid on a matter of great concern to NATD members: the distribution of free samples by cigarette manufacturers.

During the past three years, 28 bills were introduced in various state legislatures either regulate or prohibit the distribution of sam-ples. Of these bills, four were adopted, three in 1983 and one in 1984. One increased the number of cigarettes that could be contained in sample packages from a minimum of 10 to a maximum of 20, while the others restricted, in one way or another, the distribu-tion of free samples.

The increased legislative activity in this field may be due to a swell-ing tide of discontent expressed by many wholesalers who rail against this practice as a threat to their continued existence.

Before the proliferation of brands, packings and series in the cigarette field, the industry was dominated by six major brands branded or characterized by a strong dependence on consumer support. Distributing of cigarette samples to consumers without knowing their preference is inherently wasteful. It creates an artificial demand that can-not be sustained.

The practice of giving away free samples has been adopted by some manufacturers as a means of gaining market share in the respective market. One of the reasons for this technique is giving away free goods or samples. While sampling is the most highly visible of the new techniques, equally pervasive is the merchandis-ing ploy of "buy one - get one free" or “buy one - get two free.” Although these techniques may cause temporary shifts in marke share among the manufacturing companies, the end result is fewer cigarettes are sold by retailers and wholesalers suffer. Even when the volume of sales is not reduced, the dollar volume of the retailer and wholesaler and the margin of profit and sustainability of the small retailer and the large wholesale tobacco distributor is menaced.

There is a strong feeling that in their frantic desire to improve market standings, cigarette manu-facturers may be killing the goose that lays the golden egg and de-stroying the infrastructure of the nationwide network of pinpoint distribution upon which the health of the trade and the industry depends.

Moreover, it has been pointed out that in states which have a cigarette sales-excise tax, the value of free goods would be a credit to the manufacturer against his retail sales revenue. This “boon” to the manufacturer allows him to subsidize samples below-cost may enable him to capture market share at the expense of retailers and wholesalers.

The NATD has been actively involved in legislative efforts to curb this practice. We have provided information and assistance to state legislators who are attempting to regulate or prohibit the distribution of free cigarette sam-ples.

We believe that the distribution of free samples is detrimental to the entire industry.

If you are interested in further information, the Tobacco Merchants Association devoted their October 15 State Bulletin (33-38) to state legislation concerning the distribution of free samples. Call TMA at (212) 239-4433.