Internal Medicine News
Jan. 15–31, 1982

In-Office Spirometry
Can Aid Respiratory
Disorder Diagnosis
In High-Risk Group

International Medical News Service
BOSTON — Physicians can use in-office spirometry to identify at-risk smokers who have a high risk of developing respiratory disorders, according to Dr. Reuben M. Chermak, speaking at an allergy symposium sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

“Every physician should measure the forced expiratory volume and forced vital capacity of every patient,” said Dr. Chermak, chairman of the department of medicine at Denver General Hospital and Research Center/University Health Services.

Forced vital capacity (FVC), which is analogous to diastolic BP, and FEV1, analogous to systolic BP, are two parameters that can be easily measured,” he said.

“The FEV1/FVC ratio may appear normal in a patient with an underlying pulmonary disease, such as mild emphysema or early onset cardiac dyspnea. However, the FVC will be diminished and the patient cannot fully exhale,” he said.

It is important for the audience to ascertain that the measurement is accurate before making any clinical decisions, he added. “The spirometer is a piece of equipment that must be properly calibrated and maintained.”

The FEV1/FVC ratio may appear normal in a patient with an underlying pulmonary disease, such as mild emphysema or early onset cardiac dyspnea. However, the FVC will be diminished and the patient cannot fully exhale, he said.

When a physician is able to ascertain that the measurement is accurate, it is important to have the spirometer. Dr. Chermak emphasized that portable flow-metering devices are acceptable for routine screening purposes.

The level of respiratory effort can be affected by a wide range of physical and psychological factors, he said.

Family Practice News
Jan. 15–31, 1982

CDC, Canadian Officials Will Collaborate on
Public Education Program on Health Risks

ATLANTA — The Centers for Disease Control will collaborate with the Canadian government to develop a public education program on the health risks associated with exposure to asbestos, according to Charles Alfreder, special assistant administrator of CDC’s Bureau of Health Communications.

The program is designed to inform workers and the general public about asbestos hazards and how to avoid them. It will include brochures, posters, films and other materials in both English and French.

“Asbestos is a serious health hazard,” Alfreder said. “We want to make sure that people are aware of the risks and know how to protect themselves.”

The program will be developed over the next six months and is expected to be released in early 1983.

Alfreder noted that Canada has been particularly hard hit by asbestos-related illnesses, including asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma.

“We believe that a collaborative effort between our two countries is essential to effectively address this public health problem,” he said.



