JOURNAL OF COMMERCE
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1959

Cyclamate Ban May
Have Broad Impact

By CLARENCE ROSENBAUM

The processed food and sugar industries may well
undergo significant adjustments as a result of the ban
on the business suffering rather observed cyclamates as
a sweetener. The impact on the drug industry should be pretty
negligible. While food companies are scrambling to
figure out just how their op-
erations will be affected, sugar re-
finers and commodity mer-
chants are watching price move-
ments with keen interest.

The No. 1 world sugar con-
sumption organization is the
U.S. Sugar Exchange, although
the European Economic Com-
munity also plays a significant role.
The cyclamate ban will be an ele-
ment considered by these organiza-
tions as they determine their re-
spective courses of action. How-
ever, it is generally believed that
sugar refiners will not see any im-
mediate benefit from the cyclamate
ban.

“We don’t expect to see a ma-
jor price increase in sugar,” said
one executive with a large sugar re-
fining company. “The supply of
sugar is ample, and demand is
steady.” He added that any short-
term effect on prices would be more
of a psychological nature than a real
change in supply or demand.

Cyclamates have been used as a
sweetener for about 20 years, and
have become increasingly popular
in recent years because of their in-
tensive sweetness—about 30 times
that of sugar. This means that less
cyclamate is needed to achieve the
same degree of sweetness, which
translates into lower costs for food
processors.

The Food & Drug Administration’s
action against cyclamates follows
years of debate and controversy.
Some scientists have linked cycla-
mates to kidney problems in rats,
while others maintain that there is
no evidence of harm to humans.

Continued from Page 16
full-flavored water sweeter with other artificially sweet-
ened products will occur much will order more extensive testing
more slowly than many food pro- before making any changes.
cessors would like. The question “The impact on the drug in-
is whether or not consumers will dustry is negligible,” said one
accept foods sweetened with sac- pharmaceutical executive. “We’ve
charin, which has a slightly dif- been using cyclamates as a taste
ferent flavor than cyclamates. masking agent for some time, but
we haven't relied on them heavily.”

The ban also raises the question
of what other artificial sweeten-
ers will be subjected to scrutiny.
Sucralose is one possibility, al-
though it has been generally ac-
cepted as safe by scientists and
regulatory agencies.

In any event, the cost of pro-
cessing foods may increase as a
result of the cyclamate ban. Food
companies may be forced to re-
formulate their products, which
can be costly. They also may have
to pay higher prices for sugar or
other sweeteners that are neces-
sary to replace cyclamates.

It is possible that some food com-
panies will attempt to pass these
costs on to consumers in the form
of higher prices. However, this is
unlikely to happen to any great ex-
tent, as consumers are already
sensitive to price increases.

The cyclamate ban also has im-
plications for the sugar industry.
Sugar refiners may be able to sell
more sugar as a result of the ban,
but they are unlikely to see any sig-
nificant increase in profits. This is
because the supply of sugar is al-
ready ample, and demand is steady.

The ban on cyclamates is ex-
pected to have a broad impact on
the food industry. Food companies
will need to adjust their operations
to accommodate the change. Con-
sumers may see some changes in
the foods they eat. And sugar re-
finers may be able to sell more
sugar, but are unlikely to see any
significant increase in profits.

The FDA’s action is expected to
prompt a review of other food addi-
tives. The agency has been under
increasing pressure from consumer
groups to take a closer look at the
safety of food additives.

The cyclamate ban is also ex-
pected to have an impact on the
stock market. Food companies that
use cyclamates heavily are likely
to see their stock prices decline.
Sugar refiners, on the other hand,
may see their stock prices rise.

The FDA’s action is a major set-
back for the cyclamate industry.
Cyclamate manufacturers had ex-
pected to continue selling large
quantities of cyclamates in the
years ahead. The ban will force
them to find new markets for their
products.

The cyclamate ban is also ex-
pected to have an impact on the
international trade in food prod-
ucts. Countries that import food
from the United States may be re-
quired to change their regulations
to comply with the U.S. ban on
cyclamates.



100005436