Alice’s story highlights

The controversy over the ITN disclosures is fuelled by disclosures in a television documentary which has been accused of sensationalism.

The programme made by John Craven, which was broadcast last night, widened the controversy over asbestos and its effects on health. It raised questions about the safety of schools and factories. It linked the exposure to asbestos with the deaths of children and adults. The Department of Employment is now investigating. The ITN documentary, Asbestos, which was for three years in production, revealed a catalogue of incidents and showed that little has been done to protect workers from the dangers of asbestos.

Victims interviewed for the programme included a young girl at the stages of cancer and an elderly man who worked as an asbestos cement worker. The ITN documentary also included interviews with a 12-year-old boy whose father died of mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer which affects the lining of the lungs. His mother said that her husband had been exposed to asbestos for most of his working life.

Alice Jefferson, who lost her fight for life, pictured being lifted from an ambulance on her way to hospital for treatment in a television documentary which details her predicament.

lethal risk of asbestos

The Guardian
July 9, 1982

-ALW
44AN

Angela Singer reports on a TV documentary about the dangers of asbestos

Yorkshire, owed by Cape Asbestos Ltd, were exposed to high levels of asbestos dust. Several deaths were linked to asbestos exposure. The company has been accused of failing to warn workers of the dangers.

The ITN documentary revealed that children have also been affected by asbestos exposure. A 12-year-old boy, whose father died from mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer affecting the lining of the lungs, was interviewed. His mother said her husband had worked with asbestos for most of his working life.

Cape Asbestos Ltd, in a statement, said that they were “extremely concerned” by the allegations made in the ITN documentary. They said that they had always taken steps to protect their workers from the dangers of asbestos. The company is now under investigation by the Department of Employment.

The documentary also revealed that schools and hospitals have been built with asbestos cement. This material was used because it was cheap and fire resistant. However, when asbestos cement is disturbed, it releases dust into the air which can be inhaled.

Alice Jefferson, 51, of Hull, died last month after suffering from mesothelioma. She had worked as a seamstress at a textile factory in Hull for 20 years. The factory used asbestos cement to fireproof its machinery. Her husband, George, 56, is also suffering from asbestosis, a lung disease caused by asbestos exposure.

The ITN documentary included interviews with doctors and scientists who warned of the dangers of asbestos. They said that asbestos can cause cancer of the lungs and other diseases. They called for a ban on the use of asbestos.

Cape Asbestos Ltd has been operating in Barnsley,
Yorkshire, since 1930. The company produces asbestos cement products which are used in building materials. Cape Asbestos Ltd is part of Turner & Newall Holdings Ltd.

The documentary also revealed that some schools have been built with asbestos cement containing a high percentage of blue asbestos. Blue asbestos is considered to be more dangerous than other types of asbestos.

The Department of Employment has launched an investigation into the allegations made in the ITN documentary. The Health and Safety Executive is also investigating.

The ITN documentary included interviews with former workers who said that they had not been warned of the dangers of asbestos. They said that they had suffered from lung diseases as a result of their exposure to asbestos.

The documentary also revealed that some doctors have failed to diagnose asbestos-related illnesses in patients. This has meant that patients have not received the treatment they need.

Alice Jefferson’s son, David, 20, is now suffering from asbestosis. He said that he was “extremely worried” about his own health.

The ITN documentary also included interviews with parents of children who have been exposed to asbestos. They said that they were “very concerned” about the long-term effects of asbestos exposure on their children’s health.

100000016