Government Officially Announces Cyclamate Sweet

BY HAROLD M. SCHMEK
Washington Bureau of the New York Times
WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 — production of general purpose the artificial sweeteners. The shown to cause cancer when
Robert H. Finch, Secretary of purpose foods and beverages is that produces provider for human use in the case of cyclamates,
Health, Education and Wel- ordered immediately.  provider for human use in the case of cyclamates,
fare, announced today that recall of soft drinks contain- a billion dollars a year.  tion within days of receiving
day that the widely used arti- ing cyclamates will be com- The announcement was completed by Jan. 1.  evidence that it is considered sci-
ficial sweetener, cyclamate, pleted by January 1.  The Food and Drug Administration entifically valid.
musts will be withdrawn from All food products using cyc- has been studying the effects of end-food products withing cycla- Diet, Coca Cola, Fresca, Like- The government could move so
market within days. mates will be removed from the  end-food products withing cycla- Diet, Coca Cola, Fresca, Like- The government could move so
He has ordered them re- market by that date.  Out of the market by Feb. 1. “I should emphasize also quickly as to suspend the use rapidly and it has been impossible
moved from the list of sub- uses recognized as safe for use in foods largely because of the concern over possible high doses of the artificial sweetener—tion drugs containing cycla- tives of the sugar substitutes.  which the Federal Trade Com-
stances recognized as safe for tion drugs containing cycla- tives of the sugar substitutes.  which the Federal Trade Com- mission has authority.
uses in foods largely because of the concern over possible high doses of the artificial sweetener—tion drugs containing cycla- tives of the sugar substitutes.  which the Federal Trade Com- mission has authority.
concern over possible high doses of the artificial sweeten- tion drugs containing cycla- tives of the sugar substitutes.  which the Federal Trade Com- mission has authority.
er, Mr. Finch said at a news con- products will continue to be available to persons who desire them, such as those with diabetes or for care of obesity conditions.  action would be interpreted as a sign that the FDA is moving rapidly and it has been impossible for it to wait longer before taking action.

Mr. Finch and high officers available to persons who desire them, such as those with diabetes or for care of obesity conditions.  action would be interpreted as a sign that the FDA is moving rapidly and it has been impossible for it to wait longer before taking action.
said at a news conference, however, that there is no evi- For such conditions, Mr. Finch said, the FDA will continue to allow the use of cyclamates until Jan. 1. Many scientists consider the scientific evidence to support ling can lead to lung cancer.
dence that presents a risk to health beyond that which has already been established.  The FDA’s action follows a report made study would be interpreted as a sign that the FDA is moving rapidly and it has been impossible for it to wait longer before taking action.
The withdrawal of cyclamates from the market represents a major blow to the artificial sweetener industry, which is estimated to be worth 1 billion dollars a year.

CYCLAMATE SWEEP IS ORDERED

FDA Will Act After Study Shows Cancer Link

By GEORGE W. CORNELL
WASHINGTON — The Food and Drug Administration has ordered the immediate withdrawal of cyclamates from the market because of evidence that they may cause cancer, Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Robert H. Finch announced today.

The action follows a study completed by scientists at Hazleton Laboratories Inc., which showed that high doses of cyclamates caused tumors in laboratory animals.

The FDA has been studying cyclamates for several years. Cyclamates are the most widely used artificial sweetener in the United States, accounting for about 40 percent of the market. They are used in soft drinks, frozen desserts, and other foods.

The withdrawal order will require food manufacturers to remove all products containing cyclamates from store shelves by Jan. 1. The FDA said that it will continue to allow the use of cyclamates in foods for persons with diabetes or those on low-calorie diets until further notice.



