No Ads, Or Suits

People Are Smoking More Cigarettes
Again; Industry Healthy Despite Health
Warning

THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
Wednesday, November 29, 1972

By ALAN J. MAIER
Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.

The number of cigarettes sold in the United States and in every
state has been rising steadily for months—a trend that defies
the warnings of Surgeon General Luther Terry, who declared in
1964 that “smoking is Dangerous to Your Health.”

It’s not just a slight increase, either. The total number of cig-
arettes sold in 1971 was 385 billion, up from 372 billion in
1970—a gain of over 13 billion.

“The industry is doing remarkably well,” says John C. Maxwell,
president of the brokerage firm of Oppenheimer & Co., which
specializes in tobacco stocks. “It’s a testament to the fact that
people are going to smoke, regardless of what anyone says.”

Mr. Maxwell's observations are supported by recent reports from
the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC has been ex-
amining the industry’s advertising practices, particularly its use
of television commercials.

The increase in cigarette consumption is occurring despite a con-
stant barrage of anti-smoking messages on television and radio.
“It’s amazing,” says John F. Banzhaf III, a leading critic of the
industry. “People are smoking more cigarettes than ever be-
fore, even though they've been bombarded with warnings over
the years.”

The industry has spent an estimated $1 billion on television ad-
vertising since 1954, when cigarette commercials were first al-
lowed on the air. The Surgeon General’s report was issued in
January 1964.

“It's a curious phenomenon,” says Mr. Maxwell. “The more
people are told not to smoke, the more they seem to smoke.”

Mr. Banzhaf attributes this to several factors. One is that most
anti-smoking commercials are too short and don’t make a lasting
impression. “They're on for 30 seconds, then people forget all
about them,” he says.

Another factor, according to Mr. Banzhaf, is that many anti-
smoking commercials are produced by the tobacco companies
themselves. “These commercials are frequently than they’d
been if they hadn’t been broadcast. This less fre-
quent appearance of anti-smoking commercials is why cigarette
consumption has increased over the last two years,” he says.

“The effect of cigarette advertising are long-term,” Mr. Banzhaf says. “Anti-smoking
commercials have a short-term effect. People see them, and they stop smoking. They don’t
see them again, and they start smoking again.”

Mr. Maxwell adds that television or any form of
cigarette advertising on television is only a small
part of the industry's overall strategy to defy
the ban will add. “It suggests and I think he
is right, that people are going to continue to
consume cigarettes despite this in a few
years.”

Dropped Before
Pop counts estimate that cigarette consumption
will rise another 2% this year, to about 394 bil-
lion cigarettes. That would be an increase of more
than 9 billion cigarettes over 1971.

The industry’s health is also reflected in the per-
formance of its stocks. Philip Morris Inc., for ex-
ample, has seen its stock price rise from $35 a share
in January 1971 to around $64 now. United States
Tobacco Co.’s stock has climbed from $28 to $46.

“The market is saying that the industry is going
to continue to thrive,” says Mr. Maxwell. “It’s a
pretty clear signal.”

Mr. Banzhaf, however, remains pessimistic. He
believes that the industry will eventually be held
accountable for the health consequences of smok-
ing. “They may be doing well now,” he says, “but
their day of reckoning is coming.”

The SEC’s investigation of the tobacco industry
is focused on whether cigarette companies have
been complying with regulations regarding tele-
vision advertising. The commission has asked for
detailed information about the content and cost
of cigarette commercials that have been aired in
recent years.

The SEC’s inquiry is part of a broader effort to
regulate industries that engage in potentially
harmful practices. Last year, the commission
brought suit against several automobile manu-
facturers for allegedly failing to disclose safety
defects in their cars.