Lungs Ills

Toll Cut
By Cycling

By ARTHUR J. SNIDER
CHICAGO (CDI) — Riding a stationar bicycle at home three times a week can improve physical performance and daily activities for people with chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and oth-
er lung disease, a Boston study reports.

The study, reported to the American College of Physicians, indicated improvement in the exercise training helped in breathing capacity and reduced breath while walking an hour of any pace on level ground and then followed by sitting.

Measurements taken before and after 12 weeks of exercise revealed improvement in heart rate, oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production. Instructions for home exer-
cise should be that patients should feel no exhaustion from the work they do, specialists here yesterday.

Exercise time can gradually increase from 15 minutes to 30 minutes daily, the study said, as was achieved. Ten tension on the bicycle seat should be adjusted to a higher pace when fitness is improved.

The study was directed by Dr. Paul Pepper, Harvard Medical School and Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

“We found that people with chronic lung disease can benefit from exercise,” Dr. Pepper said. “It’s not as strenuous as some other forms of exercise.”

Ingredient
In Cancer
Absolved

CHICAGO (UPI) — A sub-
stance in cigarette smoke, long suspected to be a reason for
cancer” cause, has been ruled out as such, according to a prominent investigator.

Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond, vice
president of the American Can-
cer Society specializing in epi-
demiology and cancer research, said an investigation of high concentrations of this substance convinced him that it is not a cancer causing agent itself.

The substance, said Dr. Ham-
mond, is benzo[a]pyrene, commonly referred to as BaP.

“The ACS researcher said records
of 5,384 men whose medical histories six years with-
out evidence of lung cancer” rates for general mortality.

"It is most unlikely that BaP
is inhaled by man has anything to do with the cause of cancer,” Hammond said at a press conference following delivery of a scientific meeting of the American College of Physicians. Hammond indicated that other substances in cigarette smoke, particularly those produced in large amounts in animals and plants on laboratory farms.

He said he is inclined to be-
lieve that some other substance or combination of substances is responsible for cancer.

“The ACS has been conducting a study of 200,000 men since 1959,” Hammond said. “We have been able to follow their medical histories and habits.”

The investigation was con-
ducted by the American Cancer Society in cooperation with the University of Southern California.