WALL STREET JOURNAL
9/27/68

Financing Business

Philip Morris Plans to Offer
$75 Million of Debentures

NEW YORK - Philip Morris Inc. said it
plans to publicly offer sometime next month
$75 million in debentures, using the proceeds
to retire an equal amount of bank debt.

The nation’s fourth-largest cigar maker,
which also produces razors and razor blades,
toiletries and textile chemicals, said the pro-
posed offering has been filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

An underwriting group headed by Lehman
Brothers and Goldman, Sachs & Co. will
make the offering.



NEW YORK TIMES
9/27/68

Lybrand Employees Fined $17,000
For Conspiring to Rig Vending Total’s Data

By JANE SPERRY, New York Times Reporter

NEW YORK - Two partners and another
employee of Lybrand, Ross, Fenstermacher &
Lusk were fined a total of $17,000 yesterday
in certifying Continental Vending Machine
Corp.’s financial statements.

The three members of the five-man accounting
firm were convicted by jury last
month on charges of conspiring to falsify
the books of Continental Vending, a New
Jersey concern that went into liquidation last
year with debts of more than $30 million.

The penalties imposed on the accountants
could have been much stiffer. Each of the
three counts carried in addition to fines, a pen-
alty of up to five years in prison, Judge
Mansfield, however, said at the outset of the
sentencing that he was “not going to send
anyone to jail” primarily due to the back-
ground and character of the defendants.
Relatives of the three men, who were
sitting in the courtroom yesterday, smilingly
nodded as Judge Mansfield made the statement:
“savvy Bill of Business.”

Judge Mansfield said the accountants were
guilty of a “pretty sloppy” act when they
approved Continental Vending’s 1965
earnings to show a balance sheet. The footnote
to the earnings showed that the company had
a loss of $2.3 million, but the accountants
apparently did not call this to the attention
of Continental Vending’s board of directors.

The defendants are: Robert B. Lippincott,
48, of Ridgewood, N.J., a partner; William
H. Straley, 39, of Short Hills, N.J., a part-
ner; and Richard A. Kunkel, 29, of West-
field, N.J., an accountant.

Lippincott was fined $7,000 and sentenced
to three years probation. Straley was fined
$5,000 and given two years probation. Kun-
kel was fined $5,000 and placed on two years
probation. It isn’t expected that the case will come
before the appellate court until early next
year.

The case has been closely watched by many
accounting profession and is expected to have a
significant impact on the procedures of large
accountants in the future. The Securities and
Exchange Commission was very interested in
the developments so-called generally accept-
able accounting practices, which govern how
companies report their earnings.

The Continental Vending case arose from an
investigation by the Securities and Exchange
Commission into the company’s financial re-
ports. The commission found that the com-
pany had been artificially inflating its earn-
ings to make it appear more attractive to in-
vestors.



102495