On Campus

“I’m so sorry,” she said, “but I can’t let you go.”
“Why?” he asked. “Why won’t you let me go?”
“Because,” she replied, “I love you.”

(From the new novel, "The House of Snow," by John Updike)

DEAR READER:

How many times have you heard some one say, “If I only knew then what I know now!”? How often does our own keen perception come too late? How frequently do we realize that a certain course was the right one after all? What if you could go back and ask yourself questions? What if you could change your mind? What if you could start over?

It is said by Shakespeare, “Ask yourself these questions; then you will know.” But how many of us do? How many of us take the time to consider our actions? To analyze our motives?

(Continued on page 12)

He Mastered it out of Pepper

(William, he built a stove with a device and it must
all be done with pepper. His wife, Prudence, felt sure that
the whole thing would collapse. William was certain it wouldn’t.
The stove was built of pepper.)

(But even then the Stove was not entirely satisfactory.
It smoked too much. It took too long to heat up. And
the smoke smelled like a stable full of horses. So, when
Frederick, his son, grew up and became interested in
stoves, he decided to try again. He invented a new
Christmas gift.)

(William’s new pepper stove got the Christmas gifts. It
was a great success. People came from miles around to
see it. And they all said, “This is wonderful!” This
stove is so much better than William’s old stove.
It doesn't smoke as much. It heats up faster. And it
doesn’t smell like horses.)

(But even then the Stove was not entirely satisfactory.
It still took too long to heat up. So, when Frederick’s
son, George, grew up and became interested in stoves,
he decided to try again. He invented a new Christmas
gift.)

(George’s new pepper stove got the Christmas gifts. It
was an even greater success than William’s old stove.
People came from miles around to see it. And they all
said, “This is amazing!” This stove is so much better
than William’s and Frederick’s stoves. It doesn't smoke
at all. It heats up very fast. And it smells like nothing.)

(But even then the Stove was not entirely satisfactory.
It still wasn’t quite perfect. So, when George’s son,
Henry, grew up and became interested in stoves, he
decided to try again. He invented a new Christmas
gift.)

(Henry’s new pepper stove got the Christmas gifts. It
was the greatest success of all. People came from miles
around to see it. And they all said, “This is incredible!”
This stove is so much better than William’s, Frederick’s,
and George’s stoves. It doesn't smoke at all. It heats up
instantly. And it smells like nothing.)

(And that, dear reader, is the story of how the pepper
stove came to be. It is a story of perseverance and
innovation. It is a story of family and tradition. And
it is a story of how one man’s dream can change the
world.)



1002786541