An Art Director’s Viewpoint

Advertising Age, December 23, 1988

How to Get a Woman's Attention:

By Stephen Baker

The man-man situations depicted in the Slims commercials are selling cigarettes by the millions.

In case you haven’t watched television lately, here’s how it works:

Stephen Baker

They have slight masochistic overtones. There is this hard body character who wears dark glasses; who seems perpetually preoccupied, as if in a daze; who loves “The Impossible Cigarette” so much that he’ll abandon even the most beautiful girls.

He likes facts and hates women so much, in fact, that he forsakes the latter on trips to exotic locales—private jets, cars, mountain tops, penthouse apartments and anywhere else it hurts as much as it pleases them. He is the epitome of the modern male archetype who’s so busy with a smoldering table where d'oeuvres of his momentary appetite. He is obnoxious, arrogant and hopelessly incurably stylish, but he executes his role with admirable eloquence.

The interesting thing are you go down in television history as one of the most brilliant advertising campaigns of all time, isn’t it? It’s a campaign that has, at least superficially, turned back the clock—or rather, sped up the aging process—for the young-ing adult male.

It's a campaign that says: “Forget everything you ever learned about women.”

And exactly where so many women would unconscionably like to be.

The Slims commercials, bold as they may be in their approach, are an attempt to reestablish a power role that it still the male rules the roost, or should be. Here the woman is presented with a man who dominates.

While he makes no attempt to make out with her—in fact, she takes the opposite tack—he establishes a dominance that pleases his feminine instinct.

It will be interesting to watch the sales of Slims continue to climb. The fact that Virginia Slims, trying to reach the female market with a cigarette that “women” like makes things even livelier. Ours guess is that the appeal of Virginia Slims—which claims that its cigarettes are made for women to permit them to assert their independance—is not so much in what it does as in what it says of "The Impossible Cigarette."

It’s easy to change cigarettes. It's not so easy to change fundamental psychology of women. ❦



Ignore Her