1002403070

WELLS, RICH, GREENE IN CANADA

Toronto, Canada – Wells, Rich, Greene has opened an office in Welland, Canada, some of which will indicate that McCann-Erickson may be used to publicize the operations of Philip Morris. The Canadian operation of Philip Morris currently uses McCann almost exclusively for its advertising, which reportedly costs less than $1 million annually. In the U.S., Wells, Rich, Greene handles Benson & Hedges 100% for PM. In Canada Benson & Hedges about have 2 per cent of the total market – which is about half of the 100mm segment there.

Tobacco Reporter
DECEMBER 1968



HAZARD, KY.
HERALD
TM - CIRC.N.AVAIL.

NOV 30 1968

Philip Morris
May Expand
Research Space

Philip Morris Introduces New Booklet
Describing Corporate Operations

George Weissman, Incorporated of ducts, packaging, paper, adhesives,
Philip Morris Incorporated and tory specialty textile chemicals and
announced the publication of a hospital supplies.
new illustrated booklet describing “Through a diversification pro-
all aspects of the diversified to gram which began in 1957, we
bacco company’s operations. have sought an outlet for our
The booklet, "This Is Philip broad-gauge abilities,” Philip
Morris” is designed to acquaint Morris people who seek opportun-
friends of the company, employ ities for more active, more ex-
ees and employees and interested citng employment.
parties with the scope of Phil- It was announced by John R.
ip Morris Incorporated and its- noted by J.R. Joseph, Colman, 3rd,
dustries in which it is involved. Chairman of the Board of Philip
The booklet is represented Morris, that the “in pur-
as a visual story – a company suit of this goal, we have been
profile – that conveys a sense of actively engaged in a program
the vast and diversified nature to broaden our business activi-
of the firm’s operations. It ties.” Joseph said Philip Mor-
features photographs, charts ris now operates through 175
and diagrams illustrating the subsidiary companies with pro-
company's activities in various duct lines ranging from textile
fields. machinery to animal feeds.
The booklet details Philip The booklet is available at
Morris’ operations in five prin- Philip Morris offices and de-
cipal areas: tobacco, livestock partment stores.
feeds, textiles, paper products Copies may be obtained by writ-
and industrial chemicals. ing to Philip Morris Incorpo-
Philip Morris Incorporated rated, P.O. Box 200, Richmond,
is engaged in the manufacture Va. 23164.
and sale of cigarettes and other
tobacco products, as well as
livestock feeds, textiles, pa-
per products and industrial
chemicals. The company’s sub-
sidiaries include: American
Textile Machinery Corp., Ameri-
can Bakeries Co., Richmond In-

I plans are under consider-
ation for a multi-million dol-
lar expansion of Philip Morris'
research center on Snead Road overlooking the Rich-
mond skyline, according to J.T.
McDonough, Jr., president of Philip Morris Do-
mestic Enterprises.
The addition to the center
will be devoted primarily to
chemical research for all of the
company’s consumer products,
including tobacco, feeds and
medical supplies, accord-
ing to McDonough.
“We're considering very
carefully additional structures representing
many millions of dollars ex-
penditure,” he said.
The new construction will
include a multi-million-dollar
containment structure and
a research center, plus a
building for general labora-
tory use, McDonough stated.