March 26, 1970 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks

SMOKING CONTROVERSY

EFFECT OF

HON. TIM LEE CARTER
of KENTUCKY

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 25, 1970

Mr. CARTER. Mr. Speaker, those of us who attended last year’s lengthy hear-
ings on the tobacco bill were impressed by
the scores of scientific experts who testi-
fied. While it is true that little significant
progress has been made in re-
search to determine the cause of can-
cer since those conferences were held on
this matter 5 years ago.

Last month, however, a news action
about to occur on this bill, the American
Medical Association has released conclu-
sion from results of certain smoking
studies which I believe are of great im-
portance and should be brought to the at-
tention of all Members of Congress.

I am referring to an article entitled
“Bronchial Tumors in Mice,” by Dr. Wil-
liam F. Darbroch, published in the March
15 issue of The New England Journal of
Medicine. I have asked that this article be
printed in full at the end of my remarks.

Dr. Darbroch’s study involved exposing
mice to cigarette smoke for a period of 2
years. He found that 48 percent of the
female mice developed bronchial tumors,
and 36 percent of the male mice de-
veloped such tumors.

I realize that there are many factors which
must be considered in interpreting these re-
sults, but I believe they provide further evi-
dence of the dangers associated with smok-
ing.

The article itself explains the study and
its implications very well. However, I feel
that it is important for me to add my own
comments at this time.

I have been particularly struck by the
fact that Dr. Darbroch states that “the
incidence of bronchial tumors was signifi-
cantly higher in female mice than in male
mice.” He goes on to say, “It is not known
why this difference occurred, but it may be
related to differences in metabolism or
hormonal status.”

I am also concerned by Dr. Darbroch’s
statement that “the tumors were usually
large and appeared late in life.” This sug-
gests that the effects of smoking may not
be immediately apparent, but rather ac-
cumulate over time.

It is important to note that Dr. Darbroch
concludes his article by saying that “fur-
ther studies are needed to determine wheth-
er the bronchial tumors observed in these
mice are representative of human bron-
chial cancer.” However, I believe that this
study should serve as a warning to all smok-
ers.

I am also concerned about Dr. Darbroch’s
statement that “the incidence of adenoma-
tous type is more prevalent” [? Should
read: “adenomatous”] and that it is un-
clear why these tumors, in contrast to re-
gular squamous cell carcinomas, are so
much more common.

Dr. Darbroch has reported that there
are also percent of the "muscular" ones in
the mice. Based on his experience, there is no such incidence
in human population.

Mr. Speaker, as an ex twenty-five per-
cent of the non-smokers does not report
such tumors. It is obvious that many ques-
tions have not been answered and still
remain to be explored. The questions
questions are raised by this reported finding
are so important that I believe they deserve
particular attention. We may gain gener-
ally, but of more importance is our abil-
ity equipment with this real cancer fac-
tors involved.

I am particularly interested in whether
how many "adenomatous" tumors in re-
lation to squamous cell carcinomas are
encountered in human subjects. It would
also be helpful to know if there is a cor-
relation between the type of tumor and
the age at which it first appears.

Finally, I believe that we should give
consideration to whether or not the mice
used in Dr. Darbroch’s study were exposed
to other carcinogens in addition to cig-
arette smoke. It is possible that these
other factors contributed to the develop-
ment of tumors.

I urge all Members of Congress to read
Dr. Darbroch’s article and to give serious
consideration to the implications of his
findings. I believe that this study should
serve as a catalyst for further research in-
to the causes of cancer and the dangers
associated with smoking.



[Here follows the article entitled “Bronchial Tumors in Mice” by Dr. William F. Darbroch, published in The New England Journal of Medicine, March 15, 1970.]