THE NATIONAL OBSERVER
BALTIMORE, MD.
APRIL 26, 1930

Pg. 22

States Battle Cigaret Smugglers to Plug a Tax Loophole

“Reports from Our Observer”

According to Chief Inspector Sanford
of the Internal Revenue Bureau, “the
cigarette smuggling situation is getting
worse daily.” His activities and those
of his men are centered around the
smuggling of cigarettes across state lines.
The law makes it a felony and a mis-
demeanor to transport cigarettes inter-
state without paying the federal tax.

North Carolina, Gov. R. L. Moore
says, is “doing everything possible” to
cooperate with Maryland officials in
stopping the illegal cigarette traffic.
“We are willing to supply all the men
and equipment necessary,” he stated.
“It is our intention to make it as dif-
ficult as possible for these smugglers
to operate.”

Maryland’s Attorney General, Hon.
William P. Nicholson, says that “the
state will do everything in its power
to assist federal authorities in their
efforts to stop the illegal cigarette
traffic.” He added that he is “con-
vinced” that the state law against
smuggling cigarettes and other taxable
goods will be a powerful weapon in
combating this growing evil.

Edward J. Sales, Jr., head of the
federal bureau’s division in Maryland,
says that “the smugglers are getting
more clever all the time.” He says they
are using every trick imaginable to
evade detection.

A recent shipment was made in
two trucks from Brooklyn, N. Y., con-
taining 700 and 450 cartons of cig-
arettes. The value of the cigarettes
was $1,683. They were driven into
Maryland and abandoned near a farm
house.

“We are getting better all the time,”
says Sales, “but these smugglers are
also improving their methods.” He says
that they are using fast cars, hidden
compartments, and even disguises to
evade detection.

A few weeks ago, two men were ar-
rested in Baltimore with 1,500 cartons
of cigarettes. They told officials that
they had driven all the way from Vir-
ginia with the load.

Attorney General’s Services

The task of Maryland law authorities
and Attorney General which is vested
with broad powers to prosecute those
engaged in transporting cigarettes and
other taxable goods illegally, is a felony
and misdemeanor.

North Carolina, Gov. R. Moore
says that “we are doing everything pos-
sible” to cooperate with our sister state
in stopping the illegal cigarette traffic.
“We are willing to supply all the men
and equipment necessary,” he stated.
“It is our intention to make it as dif-
ficult as possible for these smugglers
to operate.”

One official said that “we think
the federal government should throw the full
weight of the law against those engaged
in this illegal traffic.” He added that
the state and federal authorities must
work together to stop the tax loss. Attorney
General Nicholson says that he believes
that the state law against smuggling is
a powerful weapon in combating this il-
legal activity.

“We are determined,” Gov. Moore
says, “to put an end to this traffic.”
“No one should be allowed to profit by
illegal activities.” County Attorney
James H. Connell says that “we will
continue to prosecute those engaged in
this illegal traffic to the full extent of
the law.” These officials say that they
are determined to make it as difficult
as possible for smugglers to operate.

Sales says that “we are getting smarter
all the time,” but he admits that the
smugglers are also improving their
methods. He hopes to be able to train
his men to anticipate and thwart the
plans of the smugglers.

One of the drivers arrested for trans-
porting cigarettes has been sentenced to
three months in jail and a $100 fine.

—JAMES R. COWAN



100424530
0550