Pg. 11

LOS ANGELES TIMES
Los Angeles, California
February 23, 1966

RATE FOR MEN STILL GREATER

Cancer Higher in Women
Who Smoke, Doctor Says

BY GEORGE GETTE
Times Staff Writer

The first big statistical study of found they still come off better than
cigarette smoking among women men.
shows that death rates from cancer The death rate from coronary
and several other diseases are high- disease among non-smokers, for ex-
er among women who smoke than ample, was found to be 2.81 times
among women who don’t. higher than among men who do not
Dr. C. E. Hammond, director of smoke. Among women smokers the
statistical research for the American death rate is twice as high.
Cancer Society, said women general- In the case of strokes, however,
ly have been much less exposed to women have the worst of the statis-
cigarette smoke than men and boys. tics. It was found that the death rate
Not only do fewer women smoke, for women smokers is 1.8 times as
but those who do smoke fewer cig- high as that for non-smokers, while
arettes, he noted, deeply and for men smokers it is only 1½
Hammond’s study showed that times as great.
the lung cancer death rate among The greatest difference was in
women smokers is nearly 20 times lung cancer, which kills more than
as high as the death rate among nine times as many men smokers as
non-smokers. Lung cancer kills only non-smokers. Lung cancer kills only
slightly more than twice as many slightly more than twice as many
women who do not smoke. women than non-smokers.
As with men, the study shows More than 114,000 deaths annually
that smoking increases the risk of are attributed to cigarette smok-
heart disease and circulatory trouble ing in the United States. The re-
among women. The mortality rate port said that if current trends con-
from these diseases is more than tinue, millions more will die in the
twice as high among women smok- future from smoking-related dis-
ers as among non-smokers, while eases.
for men smokers the risk is only Hammond’s study was made pos-
slightly higher. sible by a grant from the National
The study showed that women Cancer Institute and the American

(Continued on Page 12)



[Image of an advertisement for Raleigh cigarettes]