WALL STREET JOURNAL
New York, New York
April 10, 1962

British Budget
Calls for Some
Tax Reductions

But Macmillan Plans to Make
2 Kinds of Capital Gains
Subject to the Income Tax

Output, Export Rise Sought



LONDON - The Macmillan Conservative government is preparing a budget proposal by Selwyn Lloyd, chancellor of the exchange, that will include some tax relief for people who sell their stocks or other investments.

It is understood that the plan would cut the capital gains tax rate from 30 per cent to 25 per cent. It also would increase the amount of income that can be earned before taxes must be paid. The current limit is $5,000 a year. Instead, Lloyd said that he wants to raise it to about $7,000.

The chancellor’s plan also calls for an increase in the tax on corporate profits from 47.5 per cent to 50 per cent. This would bring the British rate closer to the United States rate of 52 per cent.



AMERICAN
New York, New York
April 8, 1962

British Taxes
To Hit Tobacco,
Capital Gains

LONDON - (AP) – Treasury Chief Selwyn Lloyd will propose a budget expected to hit property sales and tobacco with a new capital gains tax.

Forecasting aggregate that the chancellor of the exchange’s financial statement is to be presented to Commons Monday, sources said it would also raise the tax on tobacco.

This would be a way of checking the nation's smoking habits, which are rising lung cancer figures. It is campaigning against heavy smokers.

Generally, the state of Britain’s economy is pretty sure Mr. Lloyd will stick to his plans and that he will make his point before a large audience with exports.

Any encouragement of inflation, Lloyd said, would be “a disaster.”



100353766
May 28, 1962

ADVERTISING AGEN-
100353766 A
Britain May Ban
TV Cigaret Ads

LONDON, May 23 – Cigars advertising soon may be banned entirely on British television. Reginald Bevins, postmaster general, said in Parliament last night that the Independent Television Authority is considering the matter, including the type and style of cigarette advertising, with its advertising advisory committee.

Mr. Bevins said the authority “may recommend a complete ban.” If they do, that advice would be submitted to the government.

Cigaret advertising expenditures on British television amount to about $17,000,000 a year.