This AP story on lung cancer, prompted by Arthur Godfrey’s operation, cites the tobacco industry's viewpoint.

HT 0307085

DURHAM HERALD
Durham, North Carolina
May 1, 1959

Lung Cancer Grows Silently

By ALTON BLAKESLEES  “as the first warning.” By that sense,” in the words of the American
Associated Press Science Writer  Cancer Society.   Cancer Society.
NEW YORK (AP) – Arthur  The patient, a retired tobacco executive cigarette smoking
Godfrey’s recent ordeal with lung executive, said he had been a heavy is one of the most important factors. With
cancer has focused attention on a smoker for 30 years.  He was only 51 years old when the disease struck.
disease that silently stalks millions. He has since described his condition as “very weakened” and is now undergoing radiation
It’s a disease that often isn't detected therapy.
until it’s too late, and one whose incidence is rising steadily.  Lung cancer is the killing eight of every form of cancer.
The American Cancer Society estimates that lung cancer is responsible for 30 per cent of all deaths from cancer.
Lung cancer silently stalks millions, growing slowly and hidden until only 29 years are left. Simple smoking as a male cause
it’s too late.  It kills more people annually than any other form of cancer.   has been established beyond doubt.
“The first symptom is often cough- The American Cancer Society is mounting to help prevent lung cancer.
on on the skin, nothing to be alarmed ing,” said Dr. Charles S. Goodrich, a statistician has not been
about.”  But by then, it’s often too late. Chronic cough and pain are of-reported for a substantial time.   established.
ten the first symptoms.
Goodrich for years smoked cig-
arettes. He had sold tobacco since he was 16. “I never thought I would get lung cancer,” he said. “I’ve always been healthy.”

He has now quit smoking and is undergoing treatment at a New York hospital.  The American Cancer Society estimates that 18,000 women will die of lung cancer this year.   It is the leading cause of death for men.
Lung cancer is often discovered late, when it’s too late to be cured. The disease grows slowly and silently, often without any symptoms until it has reached an advanced stage.

The American Cancer Society estimates that 18,000 women will die of lung cancer this year. It is the leading cause of death for men.   It accounts for more deaths than breast, ovarian, uterine, and cervical cancers combined.

Doctors are urging smokers to quit, and they are urging non-smokers not to start.  The American Cancer Society estimates that 18,000 women will die of lung cancer this year. It is the leading cause of death for men.   It accounts for more deaths than breast, ovarian, uterine, and cervical cancers combined.



