THE STATE AND THE COLUMBIA RECORD

SUNDAY, APRIL 3, 1949

New Local Firm Aims For ‘Safer’ Cigarette

By PHYLLIS C. GROSS, Jr.

Columbia—A new local firm is attempting to eliminate one of the hidden causes of lung cancer and many other diseases by producing a cigarette that will burn “cleaner” and produce less harmful fumes.

The company, Southern Smoke Industries, Inc., plans to begin production next month of its “Sunbeam” brand cigarettes. The aim is to reduce the amount of tar and nicotine inhaled by smokers.

Southern Smoke Industries is headed by Dr. William H. Jackson, a Columbia physician, and Dr. Carl T. Ware, also a local doctor. They are joined by several other investors, including prominent business men of this city.

The company’s manufacturing plant is located on Charleston Highway, just outside the city limits. The building is modern in design and equipped with the latest machinery for processing tobacco and producing cigarettes.

The “Sunbeam” cigarette differs from ordinary brands in two main respects. First, it is made from a special blend of tobaccos selected for their low tar and nicotine content. Second, the cigarette is designed to burn more slowly and evenly, reducing the amount of smoke inhaled.

To control tar fumes, Southern’s burning rate is slowed by using a special paper that burns slower than ordinary cigarette paper. The paper is treated with a chemical compound which reduces its combustibility. High temperatures and humidity are also carefully controlled during the manufacturing process.

The tobacco is cured in a temperature-controlled room to prevent oxidation and browning.

“We believe this is a significant step toward reducing the hazards associated with smoking,” said Dr. Jackson. “Our aim is not to encourage people to smoke, but if they do, to make it as safe as possible.”

Dr. Ware added that the company has consulted with leading scientists in the field of tobacco research and believes its cigarette represents a substantial improvement over existing brands.

The company plans to employ approximately 50 persons at its plant. The majority of these will be women.

Southern Smoke Industries is offering a bonus to any employee who suggests an improvement in the manufacturing process.

“We want our employees to feel that they are part of something worthwhile,” said Dr. Jackson. “We believe that by working together, we can produce a better cigarette.”

The company’s advertising campaign will emphasize the “safer” nature of its product. The slogan will be: “Sunbeam—A brighter smoke for you.”

Business Spotlight

Production Begins Next Month

Why then, this "Safer" Cigarette?

Among those who feel that companies must take more responsibility for the effects of their products is one of the founders of Southern Smoke Industries, Dr. William H. Jackson, Columbia physician. “We are all aware of the dangers of smoking,” he said recently. “There’s no question that millions of dollars are spent annually on treating diseases caused by tobacco.”

“The fact is we are an advertising nation and we have to come up with a product that people want to buy. We believe our cigarette will meet this need, and at the same time, reduce some of the hazards associated with smoking.”

Dr. Jackson said that Southern Smoke Industries has consulted with scientists in Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, California and other states to develop its “safer” cigarette.

It will maintain a tight maker arrangement with several retail stores throughout South Carolina. The company plans to expand into neighboring states within the next few years.

The "Sunbeam" cigarette will be sold at approximately the same price as other popular brands.

With the equipment Southern estimates he can produce 20,000,000 cigarettes a year.

“We are not trying to tell people how to live,” said Dr. Jackson. “We are simply offering them an alternative.”

He added that the company is constantly seeking ways to improve its product and reduce the hazards associated with smoking. "We are always open to suggestions from our customers," he said. “We believe that by working together, we can make it a safer smoke for everyone.”

1003042293