TOBACCO GROUP’S VIEW H10038014

Cancer of Lung
‘Still Mystery’

An abundance of evidence is accumulating that shows lung cancer cannot be explained by any single, simple factor, according to Dr. Robert C. Hunt, associate scientific director of the Tobacco Research Council.

He made the statement in a medical and research bulletin published last week. Advertising Men's Post 206 of Dallas.

The position of the scientific advisory board is that far too little is known about lung cancer to warrant any conclusions as to specific cause or causes.

“Taking all the known facts into consideration, one must arrive at the conclusion that the relationship to human lung cancer just cannot be established,” Hunt said. “Anyone can speculate on it, but there’s no evidence that should be considered with fact.”

DISCUSSED REPORTS

Hunt discussed scientific reports that indicated a relationship between lung cancer in humans and exposure to coal smoke, soot, demonstrations, levels of odorous gases, occupational exposures about cigarette smoking, and multiple-union retention.

“We are going to show any animals which feel like they can expose these smokers or tobacco smoke exposed animals to something that will produce cancer,” he said.

Hunt’s council analyzes tobacco smoke in an attempt to find out what causes it.

NEW YORK JOURNAL-AMERICAN
New York, New York
November 18, 1957



ADVERTISING AGE
December 2, 1957

Cancer May Have
Multiple Causes,
Says TRC’s Hockett

NEW YORK, Nov. 28—An abundance of evidence is accumulating that shows lung cancer cannot be explained by any single, simple factor, according to Dr. Robert C. Hunt, associate scientific director of the Tobacco Research Council.

The position of the board, he said, is that far too little is known about lung cancer to warrant any conclusions as to specific cause or causes.

“Factors statistically associated with lung cancer are so significant,” Hockett said, “that it’s impossible to say that one factor alone can be responsible for the disease.” He added lung cancer is more likely caused by a combination of factors.