TRIBUNE
Minneapolis, Minnesota
February 9, 1963

New Smoking Law

THOSE WHO work with juvenile delinquents have long been concerned with Minnesota’s antiquated smoking law. They feel that because of its impracticality (it is virtually unenforceable) it breeds disrespect for law and order.

The old law makes it to smoke—but if the person happens to be going to school, college or university he is 21. The law, of course, is not enforced with any vigor or uniformity and in many places is all but forgotten.

Yet its mere presence on the statute books makes juveniles think they are “getting away with something.” The Advisory Committee on Revision of the Criminal Law has recommended a new law banning smoking for anyone under 18 and making consent of parents necessary for anyone between 16 and 18. It would be a misdemeanor to furnish tobacco to anyone barred from having it by law, just as the present law provides.

Juvenile experts do not believe that passing a new law will solve the smoking problem. Of course it will not. There is no separate, genuine concern and recognition of a “smoking” or example. Health hazards do about what can the parents do? And children? A new workable law might fit its place in such a situation.

It would be a measure of common sense if the present law were repealed and a new one substituted.

(Continued on Page 2)

SURREIBAN LIST
Essex Junction, Vermont
January 24, 1963

Young Smokers

If you have ever watched young boys—and we have seen them as young as ten— “smoking” on street corners or trying to appear nonchalant about getting a light from an old-er boy, you may be interested to know that a New Jersey community is trying to do something about the problem.

One of the larger cities has planned a seven-day campaign of education which the American Cancer Society says is a “crusade against lung cancer” and which parents think of as a fight to keep very young people from establishing a habit which they may some day wish to make a choice about, and find it’s too late.

During the week-long saturation campaign, newspapers, radio, television and school rooms, doctors, scientists and teachers will cooperate to explain to the kids just what smoking is how it began, and what harm it can do. Twelve thousand students will be reached by the all-out effort.

What inspired the community to make this effort? The shock of realizing that fifth and sixth graders in their city were smoking on their way to and from school, apparently to imitate the handsome young men and women in the tv. and magazine ads who advise everyone to try “flavor.”

We hope it isn’t too late.

The New Jersey community is launching its operation with high hopes. We wish them success as town after town undertakes this important project.