The tobacco tax item keeps showing up and has been noted in well over 100 papers.

RIVERSIDE ENTERPRISE
Riverside, California
June 4, 1961

Tobacco Taxes

NEW YORK CITY — Tobacco is the most heavily taxed of all agri-
cultural products, according to a report released by the excise tax
collection is $6 billion a year—
three times as much as farmers get for their crops.

WAYCROSS JOURNAL-HERALD
Waycross, Georgia
July 25, 1961

TOBACCO TAXED MOST

ATLANTA — The most heavily
taxed of all United States agri-
cultural products is tobacco. The
excise tax on it amounts to three bil-
lion dollars a year—three times as
much as farmers get for their crops.

CAMDEN COURIER-POST
Camden, New Jersey
June 27, 1961

Rolfe Was
Pioneer In
Leaf Culture

John Rolfe is best known to history because he married the In-
dian Princess Pocahontas. Actually, he has a better claim to fame.
Rolfe was the man who planted and harvested this nation’s first
commercially successful tobacco crop. At that time, in 1612, Rolfe's
success would mark the beginning of a major industry.

The colony of Jamestown was then on the brink of economic col-
lapse. When Rolfe’s tobacco was shipped to England, it was an im-
mediate success, saving James-
town from ruin. This was a turning
point in American history, for
it proved that Jamestown was the
only permanent settle-
ment in the New World.

Next year Rolfe's achievement
will be honored as part of a cele-
bration marking the 350th anni-
versary of tobacco America’s
oldest industry.

THE ANNIVERSARY celebra-
tion will be sponsored by the
Commonwealth of Virginia James-
town Foundation. A series of
special festivities will be staged
in Jamestown Festival Park, July
16-19, 1962. The park is the site
of many restorations and exhibits
of early colonial settlement.
The romance and adventure of those
days will come to life during the celebration.
Marriages were important to
the colonists as a symbol of good
faith and friendship between the
English settlers and the native
Americans.