SUN-TIMES
Chicago, Illinois
July 5, 1963

Statistian Takes Dim View
Of Smoking*-Cancer Figures

By Robert S. Kleckner Charles Huggins, University of Dr. Berkson continued:
A doctor at Mayo Clinic Chicago, and Dudley P. Shoag- “Maybe the reason scientists
where the Cancer Bulletin is ter, University of Illinois. in general are not trying to
lerns the lead, has cast Joseph Berkson, head of the find a cause for lung cancer
doubt on assertions that cigarette Division of Biometry and Medi- in tobacco smoke is that they
smoking can be linked as a cal Statistics since 1932, don't really believe it contains
the cause of lung cancer. wrote: such a cause.”
Despite the American Can- “The whole business (of the Total Decline Deaths
cer Society has insisted that cigarettes and lung cancer controversy) He suggested there had been
cigarettes are a cause of is conducted in an atmos- so much emphasis on lung cancer
lung cancer and many physi- sphere of emotion and recrimi- about the past but it had not
cians agree. nation. been recognized, Dr. Berkson
The Mayo doctor’s views “We ought to cool it off and added.
were published in the bulletin, engage in some sober thought While the reported death
a regular feature which recom- on all aspects of the problem rate from lung cancer has been
mends articles for the public's and particularly the research as increasing, the total death rate
either side of the coin.” pects.” from all causes has not been
(Advisories Of Eminent He took the position that sta- decreasing.
Men) tistics on lung cancer and The reported rise in the
The bulletin is published by tistic were misleading and death rate from lung cancer
the University of Texas M. D. article had been done directly can be questioned because of
Anderson Hospital and Tumor on lung cancer and smoking. the increasing rates of death
Clinic, Houston. Dr. Kleckner said He said he did not mean to on stating this certificates of
is a supervisory board mem- criticize the U.S. Public Health death.”
ber. Experts in the National Service which collects data for The doctor wrote that while
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Md., national grants for cancer re- the death rate from lung can-
search, but noted cer is increasing, the popula-
“The whole business (of the tion of the United States is
cigarette and lung cancer con- also increasing.
troversy) is conducted in an “If you look at the figures,”
atmosphere of emotion and he said, "you will see that the
recrimination.” number of deaths from all
—Joseph Berkson causes has been going up stead-
ily for years. The lung cancer
Dr. Berkson’s views were death rate is increasing, but it
expressed in a letter to Dr. is not as alarming as it might
Robert A. Copple, director of seem.”
the Cancer Bulletin. He was re- Dr. Kleckner said that the
plying to an article by Dr. American Cancer Society has
1053+3405

Dr. Berkson’s views were expressed in a letter to Dr. Robert A. Copple, director of the Cancer Bulletin. He was replying to an article by Dr.