TIME
November 15, 1963

ADVERTISING AGE
CUSTOMS November 4, 1963

The American Cancer Society has Ads Anti-Smoking
thought up a new kind of advertise- “Heroes” Succeeds, but ment—one that uses athletes. Called Resistance Looms
“Athletes Against Cancer,” the campaign is a series of print ads in which top athletes don’t smoke.” says Olympic Decathlon Champion Bob Mathias. "An athlete needs much as an athlete needs to breathe. An athlete doesn't smoke—they can't afford to." Yankee Pitcher Whitey Ford (who did some testimonial work for Camel) says: “Cigarette smoking is dangerous for your health. It goes we all know that since he proved it to be the major cause of lung cancer.” Track Stars Jim Beatty and Tom Courney, Tank Johnson, Boxer Archie Moore, McCormick, Fighters Jack Dempsey, Mc- Cormick, and Joey Patterson are aiming its ads at young athletes. The Cancer Society also plans to free national teenage magazines than will sign up.) “Run them (to have us var-

Meanwhile, the society’s volunteer advertising agency, Ogilvy & Mather, is preparing a series of print ads designed for young women con- sumers. One current campaign shows a young woman who doesn't want to smoke." I only puff on the slopes more than I do at home.” She says she likes to do with my hands I take and dance. So who needs a vp?

Now, York, Oct. 31—Despite glowing reports of success of the “Athletes Against Cancer” anti-smoking advertising campaign launched by the American Cancer Society, health organizations are going to encounter some resistance when they try to sell this idea to cigarette companies.

According to Clifton Read, the top New York ACS office, the drive has been "extremely successful.” He says the campaign has been so successful that it is difficult to determine whether the ads themselves or the publicity surrounding them have had more impact.

But Read cautioned that al- though the campaign has drawn favorable attention, the announcements and advertisements may not necessarily reach the public. “We’ve got to have a way for young men—or their parents or their doctors—to get the health information unless it is presented in a form they can understand.”

The American Cancer Society is spending $300,000 on the campaign, which will run through December 15. The ads will appear in national magazines such as Life, Look, Sports Illustrated and Saturday Review.

The campaign was conceived by Robert J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. pointed out it “has no control over media buys.” It is up to us so that our product advertising does not appear alongside objectionable compatible material.

Douglas Byers, media director of Liggett & Myers, said his com- pany would not attempt to influence the selection and placement of where its would be improper for an advertisement he had agreed aware that it would be. He saying “We’re not going to try to restrict the advertising from appearing in certain magazines or newspapers.”

Byers added that Liggett & Myers is spending $30 million on advertising this year, compared with $25 million last year.

The American Cancer Society campaign has drawn praise from many quarters. But some people have criticized it for using athletes as spokesmen.

“It’s a gimmick,” said one New York advertising executive who asked not to be named. “Athletes are heroes to young people, and they're going to do what the heroes do. If these athletes started smoking, the whole campaign would backfire.”

The Cancer Society is also planning a series of television spots featuring Starr, and Jim Beatty.

“SUING”
Resistance Looms

(Continued on page 34)

[Image of a cigarette ad]

A MAN LOOKS AT A WOMAN. SHE SMILES. HE PULLS OUT A CIGARETTE. SHE DOES TOO. THEY BOTH LIGHT UP.

"I LIKE THE WAY YOU DO THAT."

SOME PEOPLE LIKE TO SHARE THINGS.

WALTER REED - 1963



