JOURNAL
Raytown, Georgia
January 29, 1968
Moultrie Observer

How Many
Leaf Seeds?

YOU have been driving in Geor-
gia for a long time, haven’t you?
But our guess would be that
you don't know how many seeds
are in a pound of tobacco.

It’s a question that has taken
many times over. Those who put
the answer together are now
working on it.

NOW IT IS official. There are an
average of 31,000 tobacco seeds
and a branch of the U.S. govern-
ment is working to find out ex-
actly how many.

The work is being done in Wash-
ington, D. C., by the Soil Con-
servation Service and the Agri-
cultural Research Service. The
job is part of a program to help
tobacco farmers get more from
their crop.

It started when a farmer in Vir-
ginia asked how many seeds there
were in a pound. The answer was
not known, so the government de-
cided to find out.

The job is being done by weigh-
ing samples of tobacco seed. So
far, 100 pounds have been weighed.



JOURNAL
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
January 30, 1968

Tedious Job: Counting
Ounce of Tobacco Seed

Washington, D. C.—U.S. research service laboratories in
the Department of Agriculture are working on a problem that
makes government to settle that 700 people were counted out
question. They are trying to de- and weighed an ounce of to-
termine the number of tobacco bacco balance.

There are 31,400 tobacco seeds To make the experiment as
in a pound of seed. That’s one accurate as possible, they
of the tiniest yet most im- weigh this many proof is a handful of tobacco seeds.
portant jobs in the country. The number of seeds were then
It takes time and care enough to plant three or four weighed.

to plant three or four acres Jeffrey found that the 1,000
of land. It takes about 30,000 tobacco seeds weigh a little less
to 40,000 seeds to the ounce than 500 million of the
of tobacco seed. The official tobacco varieties.

The official figure has been made The official publication of the
available through the U.S. De- Department of Agriculture says
partment of Agriculture. It is that there are 31,400 seeds
frequently used by farmers to in an ounce.

determine how many seeds they Farmers use this information
need for planting. They also to determine how much seed
use it when they are buying they need for planting. The
seed. One pound of tobacco seed average farmer plants about
costs about $2.00. 40 acres of tobacco.

The work was started in 1963 Jeffrey found that the seeds
when a Virginia farmer asked weigh about 25 pounds to the
how many seeds there were in bushel. The weight is not
a pound. It has been going on uniform because they vary in
ever since. size. Farmers usually buy their
The job is being done by seed at harvest, they
weighing samples of tobacco are then stored until planting
seed. So far, 100 pounds have time.

been weighed. The work is being
done by the Soil Conservation
Service and the Agricultural
Research Service.



Farm (and) Home

By Edward P. Kennedy
Franklin, Kentucky



(Advertisement)
Curtiss-Wright Farm Equipment
Sold By:
Ray’s Ford Co.
Moultrie, Georgia



Council to Meet
February 5th