WALL STREET JOURNAL
The New York, New York
April 8, 1958

Tests With Mice Will Check Possible Link
Of Smoking, Lack of Niacin and Cancer

By Jerry Bishop
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
SAN FRANCISCO—The amidice controls he-
ve uncovered a possible connection be-
tween cigarette smoking and cancer. It is
regarded now by correct research men as
a most important discovery, and it is good
time for mice and a confusing time for
men.

A San Francisco pharmacologist threw a
bomb into the scientific world when he an-
nounced that the smoke which was held for lit-
tle mice caused cancer.

Dr. F. L. Freudenberger of Mount Zion Hos-
pital said yesterday that his experiments
demonstrated a clear link between the lack of
niacin—vitamin B3—and the development of
cancer in mice exposed to cigarette smoke.

“We have found that mice deficient in nia-
cin are far more susceptible to cancer when
exposed to cigarette smoke than are mice with
adequate niacin levels,” Dr. Freudenberger
said at a press conference. “This suggests
that there may be a similar effect in humans,
although we cannot say for certain.”

The experiments were conducted over a pe-
riod of two years and involved more than 200
mice. The animals were divided into three
groups: one group received adequate niacin;
another was deficient in the vitamin; and a
third group served as a control. All groups
were exposed to cigarette smoke for several
hours each day.

Experiment With Whitele

In the experiment, Dr. Freudenberger said that
he and his associate, Frederick A. French,
have been feeding mice a diet deficient in
niacin. Mice on such a diet are normally
healthy, but they become susceptible to lung
cancer. The type of cancer found was not
not found in humans—and both groups were
exposed to cigarette smoke, which led them
such a way they developed cancers.

The animals on the niacin-deficient diet devel-
oped open ulcers in their tumors, said Dr. Freu-
denberger. These ulcers appeared to be caused
developed only ill poor mouse, strong evidence
that the lack of niacin increased cancer suscep-
tibility can be explained.

“This is not to say that cigarette smoking
will certainly cause cancer in humans who are
deficient in niacin,” Dr. Freudenberger cau-
tioned. “But it does suggest that people who
smoke and have a low intake of niacin may be
at increased risk.”

Dr. French said that the experiments were
designed to determine whether there was a
relationship between cigarette smoking and can-
cer in mice. The results, he said, were sur-
prising.

“We did not expect to find such a clear link
between lack of niacin and cancer,” Dr. French
said. “But the evidence is very strong.”

Dr. Freudenberger said that the experiments
have led him to believe that there may be a
similar effect in humans. He cautioned, how-
ever, that more research is needed before any
conclusions can be drawn.

“We need to determine whether people who
smoke and have a low intake of niacin are at
increased risk of cancer,” Dr. Freudenberger
said. “We also need to learn more about the
mechanism by which lack of niacin increases
cancer susceptibility.”

The experiments were conducted with Chester-
field cigarettes. Dr. Freudenberger said that
enough niacin are more susceptible to lung
cancer.

The reason for using mice, he explains, is
that they are the best indicators of whether
a substance will cause cancer in humans.

A New York scientist, Dr. Mor-
ris Traisman, told the newspaper that “it appears
to be a very important discovery.” He has
been working with mice and heavy doses of
mice were paired with prolonged exposure. Traisman’s experiments.

Dr. Traisman said that scientists have, how-
ever, been unable to produce any tumors in mice
when they have been given tobacco tar.

Evidence Presented

Dr. Freudenberger said that he has not seen
cancer caused in any period of time longer
than 18 months.

“We are now conducting experiments to de-
termine whether the effect of cigarette smok-
ing can be counteracted by giving people ad-
equate amounts of niacin,” Dr. Freudenberger
said. “If we can do that, it would suggest
that lack of niacin is a major factor in the
development of cancer.”

Dr. French said that the experiments have
led him to believe that there may be a simi-
lar effect in humans. He cautioned, however,
that more research is needed before any con-
clusions can be drawn.

“We need to determine whether people who
smoke and have a low intake of niacin are at
increased risk of cancer,” Dr. French said.
“We also need to learn more about the mecha-
nism by which lack of niacin increases can-
cer susceptibility.”

The experiments were conducted with Chester-
field cigarettes. Dr. Freudenberger said that
the results would probably be similar with oth-
er brands of cigarettes.

Dr. Freudenberger said that he is not sure
why lack of niacin makes mice more suscep-
tible to cancer. He speculated that it may be
because niacin is important for the repair of
damaged cells.

“When cells are damaged by cigarette smoke,
they may be less able to repair themselves if
the animal is deficient in niacin,” Dr. Freuden-
berger said. “This could lead to the develop-
ment of cancer.”



HT0037318