ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS
Denver, Colorado
April 22, 1961

Heart Disease, Cancer
Conquest Predicted

By JOHN TROAN
Scripps-Howard Science Writer
WASHINGTON, April 21—The conquest of heart disease and cancer, which now account for nearly two out of every three deaths in the U.S., was predicted Friday by a White House committee of 23 experts.

“Say we do no more than conquer the infectious diseases which have been the scourge of mankind from the face of the earth,” said Dr. Selman Waksman, the experts declared.

10 years then—if endorsed President Kennedy’s call for an all-out medical research effort—would see the training of “thousands of men and women” in basic sciences and medicine. No price tag was set on the program.

The committee said that it hoped to conquer cancer within 10 years, but added that heart disease would be a more difficult problem.

“There is no question longer can be any question that some cancers in humans are caused by environmental factors. The big question is how many.”

The establishment of virus-cancer links, the committee report would immediately open up possibilities of protection by immunization.

10:12:39 19
The conference described “tobacco smoke” as a “complex form of air pollution” and branded this "a particular cancer hazard." It was noted that statistics which show heavy cigarette smokers develop lung cancer much more often than non-smokers.

The report and a research has brought forth sound evidence that environmental factors contribute to the cause of heart disease, stroke and diseases of the blood and blood vessels.

“Among these,” it said, “were exposure to high energy radiation (such as X-rays), excessive exercise, the use of tobacco, chain smoking, poor diet and habits. Many lives can be saved by applying this knowledge effectively.

NEW YORK HERALD-TRIBUNE
April 23, 1961

Scientists Tell Kennedy
Smoking Has Link
To Heart Illnesses, Cancer

By ROBERT K. SEAWELL
Herald Tribune Staff Writer
WASHINGTON—President Kennedy was told yesterday that smoking is a major factor in heart illnesses and cancer and that the nation’s health program must include intensive research into the effects of tobacco on the human body.

The information was relayed to the President by members of the special committee on heart disease, cancer and stroke which he appointed last year. The committee presented its preliminary report at a White House meeting attended by Kennedy and his top medical advisors.

Dr. Paul D. Forrester, chairman of the committee, said that while the exact mechanisms are not fully understood, there is “compelling evidence” that smoking contributes to both heart disease and cancer.

“We know that cigarette smoke contains many chemical compounds which are known to be harmful,” Dr. Forrester said. “It is reasonable to assume that these compounds play a role in the development of these diseases.”

The committee’s report also emphasized the importance of research into other environmental factors that may contribute to heart disease and cancer, such as air pollution, diet and exercise.

Kennedy expressed his support for the committee’s recommendations and pledged to provide the necessary resources to carry out its work.

“This is a critical issue,” Kennedy said. “We must do everything we can to reduce the burden of these diseases on our nation.”

The committee’s report was based on an extensive review of scientific literature and consultations with leading medical experts from around the world. It concluded that heart disease, cancer and stroke are among the most serious health problems facing the nation and that a concerted effort is needed to combat them.

The report also noted that while significant progress has been made in recent years in treating these diseases, much more remains to be done.

“We have only scratched the surface,” Dr. Forrester said. “There is still so much we don’t know.”