Lung Cancer Called Big Killer
Of 2-Pack-a-Day Smokers

By GEORGE A. PHELPS
City News Staff

Atlantic City, June — The American Medical Association’s cancer committee reported today that men who smoke two packs of cigarettes daily have a death rate 10 times as high as that of non-smokers.

Dr. J. Stellar Hammond direct-
ed the study. It was presented at the 104th annual meeting of the American Medical Association.

Hammond said the study, based on data from Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Wisconsin, showed that men who smoke one pack a day have a death rate five times as high as non-smokers.

The committee’s report stated that the increased death rate was primarily due to lung cancer and heart disease.

“We cannot say definitely that smoking causes cancer,” Hammond said, “but we can say that there is a strong association between cigarette smoking and lung cancer.”

The study followed 35,000 men for 14 years. The men were selected at random from the populations of the six states.

Hammond said that the death rate from all causes was higher among smokers than non-smokers. He added that the increased death rate from heart disease was more pronounced among those who smoked two packs a day.

“The risk of dying from lung cancer is 10 times as great for men who smoke two packs a day as it is for men who do not smoke,” Hammond said. “The risk of dying from all causes is five times as great.”

Dr. Charles C. Miller, chairman of the committee, said that the study was one of the most comprehensive ever conducted on the relationship between smoking and health.

“It provides further evidence that cigarette smoking is a serious health hazard,” Miller said.

The report also stated that there was no significant difference in the death rate between men who smoked one pack a day and those who smoked two packs a day.

THE EVENING BULLETIN
Fairdale, Pa.
June 9, 1955

Sixty-four per cent of the
doctors attending the session
were surgeons and half of the pathologists present said that they
believe heavy smoking of cigarettes may lead to lung can-
cer.

The reports were tempered from
the findings of Dr. Hammond’s
study which was presented at
a symposium on cancer and
cigarette smoking held as part
of the American Medical Associa-
tion convention.

Some 15,000 doctors attended
the week-long meeting.

Dr. Hammond said that the
study involved a random sample
of 35,000 men in Illinois, Iowa,
Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and
Wisconsin. The men were follow-
ed for 14 years.

“The risk of dying from lung
cancer is ten times as great for
men who smoke two packs a day
as it is for men who do not
smoke,” Dr. Hammond said. “The
risk of dying from all causes is
five times as great.”

Dr. Miller stated that the study
provided reasonable doubt that
cigarette smoking is a serious
health hazard.

“We cannot say definitely that
smoking causes cancer,” he said,
“but we can say that there is a
strong association between cig-
arette smoking and lung can-
cer.”

The report also stated that
there was no significant difference
in the death rate between men
who smoked one pack a day and
those who smoked two packs a
day.



