Page 8

NEW YORK TIMES
New York, New York
September 14, 1965

DRINKING CALLED
A CANCER CAUSE

Report Shows Relationship
of Alcohol to the Disease
in Mouth and Throat

998 CASES WERE STUDIED

‘Heavy’ Imbibing Is Found
to Be Twice as Prevalent
in Hospital Patients

By JOHN A. OSMUNDSEN
and Richard Severo
Special to The New York Times
LONDON, Sept. 13 (AP) — Heavy consumption of alcoholic beverages is linked to an increased risk of cancer of the mouth and throat,
In a study conducted at three London hospitals, it was found that twice as many patients with those cancers were heavy drinkers than non-drinkers.

The data, collected on 998 cases of oral cancers, showed that 20 per cent of the patients were “heavy” drinkers, while 10 per cent were non-drinkers. The study indicates a possible causal relationship between alcohol and cancer cases.

Dr. John W. McArdle of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, who directed the research, said today that the findings suggest that heavy drinking doubles the chances of developing oral cancer.

“We are not saying that alcohol is the sole cause,” Dr. McArdle emphasized. “But it appears to be a significant factor.”

The study was reported in The Lancet this week. It involved patients from St. Bartholomew’s, Guy’s and Middlesex hospitals.

—1.5 Ounces a Day
Heavy drinking was arbitrarily defined as the consumption of more than 1.5 ounces of alcohol a day, or according to Dr. McArdle, “a considerable amount.” The study did not attempt to estimate how much alcohol was consumed probably related to the increased risk of oral cancer.

Dr. McArdle said that an outline of the findings will be presented at the Gordon Research Conference on Cancer and Cellular Biology in Les Diables, France, next month. He said that the study has shown
that Veterans also showed the following:

“An important factor which is related to drinking is the age group. The heaviest drinkers are found in the 40 to 60 year old group, and heavy drinking is more common among men than women.”

The study further revealed that 27 per cent of the heavy drinkers were smokers, compared with 18 per cent of the non-drinkers.

“It is possible,” Dr. McArdle said, “that smoking and alcohol act synergistically to increase the risk of cancer.”

He added that the study did not attempt to determine whether alcohol directly causes cancer or merely increases susceptibility to it.

The research team also noted that oral cancers are more common in men than women, and are more frequent among those who smoke heavily.

“We do know,” Dr. McArdle said, “that oral cancers are rare among Jews, and we suspect that this may be related to their lower consumption of alcohol.”

He added that the research indicates the New York pos-
sibility that alcohol damages the liver might render that organ less able to eliminate ‘cancer-causing sub-
stances’ from the blood. If this were true, he said, it would explain why a variety of cancers, not just those of the oral region of the body, are more frequent.

—Ugles More Research
Dr. McArdle emphasized the need for further research into something of alcoholic beverages and cancer. He said that it is possible that alcohol may also be related to other types of cancer, such as those of the esophagus and stomach.

The study was supported by a grant from the Medical Research Council.

Among the findings:
* 20 per cent of oral cancer patients are heavy drinkers.
* 10 per cent are non-drinkers.
* Heavy drinking doubles the chances of developing oral cancer.
* Smokers and heavy drinkers are more likely to develop oral cancer.
* Oral cancers are rare among Jews.



100402362