Note the identical wording of these stories indicating the adaptation of a prepared press release.

GAZETTE
Martinez, California
August 2, 1962

NEWS
Inglewood, California
July 18, 1962

MORE REQUESTS HEARD
ACS Reveals Cigaret, Lung Cancer Studies

Public interest in cancer-strips and other materials on Public interest in the rela- labeling cigararettes with
the relation between smoking and health is growing so tionship between cigarette smok- such information.
fast it suggests to Dr. Frank up free of charge. ing and lung cancer is shown  A revised edition of the American
Swearingen, president of the Amer- The Solano County branch is a sharp upward according Cancer Society’s report, “Di-
ican Cancer Society's Contra Costa located at 1500 Main Street in to recent studies. Dr. Wil- rector of Statistical Research
County unit, that more effort must Walnut Creek, telephone No. liam Wood, district education chair for the American Cancer Society,
be devoted to this field. 934-7640. man of the American Cancer is highly recommended.
“We have been getting more  “We have been getting more Society. Those who wish to know more
requests for literature and pro- requests for literature and pro- “It has been suggested that on the evidence from which
gram material on smoking than gram material on smoking than labeling cigararettes with such information.
we ever anticipated when we ever anticipated when we issued  a revised edition of the American
issued our statistical report on the subject was announced in 1954,” he said.  Dr. Wood attributes the in- crease to publication this spring of the British Medical Journal’s report on “Smoking and Health” and the widespread publicity it received. “More people want to know where they stand, and what is being done about the problem,” Dr. Wood said. “They are interested in what the medical profession and public health officials are doing.”
The American Cancer Society’s statistical report on the subject was announced in 1954.

Dr. Swearingen said that the American Cancer Society has many pamphlets, reprints, and films available to the public free of charge.  These materials deal with all phases of cancer prevention and treatment.
A copy of the ACS report is available at most book stores in a paper-back edition. He said that the American Cancer Society has many pamph lets, reprints, and films available to the public free of charge. These materials deal with all phases of cancer prevention and treatment.

The British Medical Journal’s report on “Smoking and Health” concludes that there is growing evidence that cigarette smoking is associated with increased incidence of lung cancer in men.
A copy of the ACS report is available at most book stores in a paper-back edition.



