WINSTON-SALEM SENTINEL
Winston-Salem, N.C.
September 23, 1963

More Study
Of Smoking
Is Asked

George V. Allen, president of The Tobacco Institute, today called for a re-examination of the “confusing and often contradictory” statement about smoking and health issued recently by the Joint National Committee on Cancer.

The committee’s statement, released September 17, said there is "no present scientific evidence" to relate lung cancer to cigarette smoking.

Allen said in a letter to Dr. Luther Guyer, chairman of the committee, that the statement “is not supported by the available evidence.”

“It is natural that the headlines would go to those who suggest a possible link between tobacco products or who make a charge,” Allen wrote.

He added that "a chorus of loud voices" saying there is a connection has made it difficult for the public to understand the facts.

Allen said the Tobacco Institute agrees with the committee’s statement that “more research is needed.”

“We have been conducting such research for many years and will continue to do so,” he wrote.

The Joint National Committee on Cancer is composed of representatives from the American Medical Association, the American Cancer Society, the U.S. Public Health Service, and the National Heart Institute.

Allen’s letter said that while the committee's statement “is a step in the right direction,” it also "leaves much to be desired.”

He suggested that the committee consider the following points:

1.  That there are certain things about tobacco use that are known.
2.  That there are many uncertainties regarding possible effects of cigarette smoking.
3.  That research is needed to resolve these uncertainties.
4.  That it is not wise to make statements which give the impression that there is no relationship between cigarette smoking and health.

Allen also said the literature on tobacco and health contains a wide variety of opinion, fact and speculation, that it is difficult to determine what the facts really are.

“However, when one considers all of the available research, one finds that much of it does not fit the theory that cigarette smoking has regard smoking as a serious health hazard,” he said.

"It is natural that the headlines would go to those who suggest a possible link between tobacco products or who make a charge," Allen wrote.

“The position of the tobacco industry, on the other hand, does not deny that there are questions, he said, because "we do not presume to know all answers.”

Certain Things...

"There are certain things we know about tobacco use,” Allen said. “We know that it is a habit and that it can be difficult to break. We know that cigarette smoking has been associated with some diseases. We know that there are many people who smoke and do not develop these diseases."

Uncertainties...

“There are many uncertainties regarding possible effects of cigarette smoking,” Allen said. “We do not know whether or not cigarette smoking causes cancer. We do not know whether or not it causes heart disease. We do not know whether or not it affects the life span.”

Research...

"Research is needed to resolve these uncertainties," Allen said. "The Tobacco Institute has been conducting such research for many years and will continue to do so."

Statements...

“It is not wise to make statements which give the impression that there is no relationship between cigarette smoking and health,” Allen said.



DURHAM MORNING HERALD
Durham, N.C.
September 24, 1963  10035-27938

More Research Urged
On Smoking, Health

WINSTON-SALEM (AP) — A fact and opinion that it is important to determine what the facts really are in pre-
senting a statement on smoking and health.

George V. Allen of The Tobacco Institute said much of the available research does not support the theory that a link exists between cigarette smoking and serious health hazards as a result of those who make such statements substitute for research.

Allen, whose organization has set up a $5 million program to study tobacco use, also urged that the committee consider these points:

1.  That there are certain things about tobacco use that are known.
2.  That there are many uncertainties regarding possible effects of cigarette smoking.
3.  That research is needed to resolve these uncertainties.
4.  That it is not wise to make statements which give the impression that there is no relationship between cigarette smoking and health.

The Joint National Committee on Cancer recently said there is "no present scientific evidence" to relate lung cancer to cigarette smoking.

Allen said in a letter to Dr. Luther Guyer, committee chairman, that the statement “is not supported by the available evidence.”

He added that while the committee’s statement “is a step in the right direction,” it also “leaves much to be desired.”

The committee is composed of representatives from the American Medical Association, the American Cancer Society, the U.S. Public Health Service and the National Heart Institute.

Allen said the tobacco industry does not deny that there are questions about cigarette smoking.

“We do not presume to know all answers,” he wrote.



