INGLEWOOD NEWS
Inglewood, California
January 15, 1957

WHERE THERE'S SMOKE...

If you watch television with any degree of regularity, you’ve noticed the gradual shift in opinion—and for good reason—regarding filter-tip cigarettes. The filter-tip has captured nearly one-third of the American cigarette market.
On the other hand, science fear or suspicion that there is something much to do with this change in the American smoking habits.

Thirteen billion cigarettes were smoked during 1956 in spite of increasing reports linking smoking with lung cancer. Even so, it may be doubted that the average television viewer will take seriously the presentations are presented over TV. Many smokers seem to believe that cigarette companies have done a good job of convincing the public that filter-tips are “safer” than straight cigarettes.

A smoker can carry on without any apparent ill effects for 20 or 30 years, and then suddenly drop dead with lung cancer. It’s easy to dismiss such cases as flukes, but it is becoming increasingly difficult to do so.

The cigarette companies have been quick to point out that there is no conclusive proof that smoking causes lung cancer. They are technically correct. There has not been a court case in which the cigarette industry was found guilty of causing lung cancer. But this does not mean that the cigarette companies are entirely innocent.

KANSAS CITY STAR | #1003
A SMOKER TIE TO CANCER

EXPERTS HERE AGREE RELATIONSHIP EXISTS

Other Forms of Air Pollution
Linked to Lung Rise in
Lung Cancer

Specific laboratory proof that smoking causes cancer of the lungs has not been adduced, but five experts agree that a relationship exists. Dr. Robert A. Kyle of the University of Kansas Medical Center said that clinical records indicate a relationship between heavy smoking and such cancers.

“It’s possible,” he added, “that if we could eliminate smoking entirely, we could reduce the incidence of lung cancers. The other pollutants in the air also contribute to the problem.”

Dr. Kyle has been studying cancer rates in Wyandotte County for several years. He said that the rate of lung cancer is higher among men than women. This is attributed to the fact that men smoke more heavily than women.

The incidence of lung cancer is rising rapidly throughout the country, and Dr. Kyle believes that this trend will continue unless something is done about it.

Smoking and Heart Disease

Dr. J. Harold Stone of the Control of Factory for Public Health in Kansas City said that he is investigating the relationship between smoking and heart disease. He said that there is some evidence to indicate that smoking contributes to hardening of the arteries, which can lead to heart attacks and strokes.

“We are not ready to say definitely that smoking causes heart disease,” Dr. Stone added, “but we are continuing our studies in this area.”

Dr. Stone also pointed out that cigarette smoke contains carbon monoxide, a gas that reduces the amount of oxygen carried by the blood. This can be particularly dangerous for people who have heart conditions.

Do City Residents Face Growing Problem? Dr.
Stone said that Kansas City has an air pollution problem.

Dr. Motley’s studies
have shown that there is more smog in Los Angeles, but he believes that the quality of air in Kansas City is not as good for lungs, he said.

Chemonts have shown
that smog contains ozone and other pollutants which react with the nitrogen dioxide in the atmosphere to form a poisonous gas. This is harmful to persons to lungs. But he do not believe that this has much to do with the increase in lung cancer in the area.

Kansas City Problem
A campaign to control air pollution is planned for Kansas City, according to Dr. Stone. The city commission has approved a $50,000 appropriation for a study of the problem.

The study will be conducted by the Control of Factory for Public Health. It will investigate the sources of air pollution in the city and recommend ways to reduce it.

Dr. Stone said that he hopes the study will provide information that will help the city commission make informed decisions about air pollution control. He added that he believes that everyone has a responsibility to protect the environment.



