MESSENGER
Madisonville, Ky.
December 27, 1962

Tobacco A Mainstay
Of Family Farm

Tobacco may be providing a last strong
hold for the traditional “family farm” in the
United States—an institution which THE
MESSENGER hopes will never disappear.

Stephen E. Wrathe, director of the tobacco
co division of the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture’s marketing service, made the point
the other day that while other types of farms
are disappearing at a rapid rate, upholding
families they once supported, tobacco farms
have actually increased in number. This may
surprise some, but here are the figures:

Nearly 3,000,000 farms have disap-
peared since 1919, about 45 per cent of
the total. In 1919 there were 6,500,000
U.S. farms. Last year there were only
3,800,000.

Tobacco farms meanwhile have reg-
istered a gain of 21,000 in number since
1919—from 496,000 that year to 517,-
000 now.

The decline in farms, Director Wrathe
pointed out today in TOBACCO NEWS, has
been steady since 1919, a slight upturn
in the 1930’s being due to the depression
when young people went on the farm to
supplement income as a result of unem-
ployment in factories.

“The main reason for the decline,” he said,
“is that farming is no longer an attractive
way of life for many people.”

He added that “the disappearance of farms
has been accelerated by the fact that farm
labor has become relatively more expensive
than factory labor.”

Wrathe also pointed out that the mechan-
ization of agriculture has played a big part.
“It is true,” he said, “that we have been able
to find out if it is true or not, but we were told
once upon a time that buggies, even, are made
of soybeans, and such a development would cer-
tainly be a miracle in these days when good
old coal can be turned into a vast var-
iety of things other than fuel, and when
skyways are scanned with eager eye
by chemists and engineers and such, look
ing for possible new uses.

In his piece in TOBACCO NEWS, in which
he commented on the soybean craze rather than
the soybean angle, Mr. Wrathe allowed that
the movement away from the farm to the
city results largely from changes in farm
technology and “better employment oppor-
tunities in business and industry.” though it
should be said that many who quit the farm
and flock into the Big Town for job oppor-
tunity meet disappointment and sometimes
frustration.

In terms of people who man the farms,
there was a drop of 4,000,000 or so from
1950 to 1958, as has been reported many
times since, and commonly it is said that
mechanization, better seed and fertilizer and
improved methods have all contributed to
the drop in manpower needed in expanding.

On the other hand, rapidly expanding in-
dustry has required more manpower in years
gone by, and in this area, too, we find changes.
Mechanization has advanced rapidly in most
lines, automation has replaced men with ma-
chines, and if the sign of the decline every-
body will grow larger as the machine grows
big.

The role of tobacco itself may be
pointed out as one reason a large number
of people stay on farms—a reason that
cannot be dismissed too lightly.

“Tobacco,” says Mr. Wrathe, “is one crop
that is still grown largely by family labor.
It requires a lot of hand work from the set-
ting of the plants to the harvesting and cur-
ing.”

He added that tobacco farmers are able to
get a good price for their product, which
helps them to stay in business.

“The future of the family farm,” he con-
cluded, “depends on whether or not we can
find ways to make farming more attractive
to young people.”



