CIGARET AMERICAN TRIAL Opens

By DENIS BEREND
Trial began in Federal Court today of a $1,500,000 damage suit filed by Mrs. Mary Green against Lucky Strike cigarette company, alleging that the company failed to warn safeguard against “harmful substances” contained in cigarettes.

The suit was brought by Mrs. Mary Green 5th St., N.E., whose husband, Edwin M. Green, died a lent of a contracting firm, died lung cancer on Feb. 26, 1958.

Green started the suit a month before his death. Mrs. Green continued it.

It names the American Tobacco Co., makers of Lucky Strike cigarettes, as defendants. The question whether the substances have been known to cause human ills has long been a point of controversy.

A FACTOR:
Nicotine is not a known carcinogen (cancer-producer). Arsenic may be a factor in helping a cigarette produce can-cer, chemists have said.

Dr. Lawrence V. Hastings, at-torney for Mrs. Green, charges

Miami News
July 18, 1960

that are known to produce cancer in animals. The question whether the substances have been known to cause human ills has long been a point of controversy.

that carcinogens are unknown in the tar that Green was aware of the fact, and that the substances could have been removed.

Green smoked between two and three packages of cigarettes a day for about 20 years. Dr. Hastings said.

FIT: SAFETY
Mrs. Green charged the com-pany with negligence, breach of implied warranty, and mis-leading advertising.

She alleged through the at-torney that the company lim-ited its ads to Lucky Strike cigarettes as “it’s safe for human consumption.”

Dr. Hastings said:
“Until manufacturers face the fact that carcinogens sub-stances are present in their cigarettes, they won't begin to take measures.”

“Our case,” he said, “will force them record manage bring out the truth and state evidence against them.”

A Jury Set In Cancer Suit

MIAMI, FLA., July 18 (UPI) — A jury was selected today to hear a $1,500,000 damage suit brought by Mrs. Mary Green against the Ameri-can Tobacco Co. The suit is filed in Lung Cancer.

The case, which opened in U.S. District Court this morning, involves the death of Edwin M. Green in 1958.

July 18, 1960
NEW YORK TIMES
(Copyright 1960 by The New York Times Co.)

73s 4d 18 60

2299834039

Green, a Miami contractor, died of lung cancer. Mrs. Green is seeking damages from the cigarette company.

The American Tobacco Co. is charged with negligence, breach of implied warranty and mis-leading advertising.

Mrs. Green alleges that the company failed to warn consumers about the “harmful substances” in Lucky Strike cigarettes.

Dr. Lawrence V. Hastings, Miami attorney for Mrs. Green, said today that he will prove that carcinogens are present in the tar of Lucky Strike cigarettes. He said that these substances are known to produce cancer in animals.

He said that the company has failed to warn consumers about the presence of these substances and has made false claims about the safety of its product.

The case is expected to last several weeks.

Mrs. Green testified that her husband smoked two or three packages of Lucky Strike cigarettes daily for 20 years.

She said that she had never been warned by the company about the dangers of smoking.

Dr. Hastings said that he will call expert witnesses to testify about the effects of carcinogens on human health.

He said that he will also present evidence showing that the American Tobacco Co. knew about the presence of carcinogens in its cigarettes but failed to warn consumers.



