The recent Study Group report continues to receive comment.

H100038

THE PRESS
Newport News, Virginia
March 25, 1957

THE TIMES
Shreveport, Louisiana
April 6, 1957

Cigarettes And Lungs

It would be fair to definitely would
—or could — give a definite and final an-
swer to the question of whether heavy smoking of
lung cancer, or any tangible percentage of
lung cancer, is caused by cigarette smoking
— or by smoking “too many” cigarettes.

The recent Study Group has been advised
of scientists concerned by cured cancer and
the tobacco industry. The group said that his
industry’s own research does not support the
re-reading reports other scientists and medical
men have made about the link between
lung cancer or lack of factual proof and
publication of the report was premature. But
that is what has happened.

That lung cancer occurs from five to 15
times more often among heavy smokers than
among non-smokers, who smoke their way
through a pack (20 cigarettes) a day will do
it in one year. The Study Group said it
will not enable “this uncertainty” or the fact
that men who smoke the long-range rate is
but one out of 17,535.

It has been proven that there is a link be-
tween cigarette smoking and lung cancer. It is
said it most likely occurs in male smokers.
And it has been proven that more than 40,000
Americans die each year from lung cancer.

The Study Group said that the tobacco in-
dustry has done some research on this sub-
ject but they have not made their findings
public. The group said that there is a definite
link between cigarette smoking and lung can-
cer, but it cannot be determined whether or
not heavy smokers are more susceptible to
lung cancer than non-smokers.

Take Your Choice
Of These Reports

Another medical group has come
with what it calls “incontrovertible” evi-
dence that the link between cigarette
cancer. The “incontrovertible” evidence
says that men who smoke are susceptible to
cancer than those who do not smoke.

This bit of study from this parti-
cular group says that there is no doubtable
evidence from a previous 2 studies
that heavy smokers and lung can-
cer go hand in hand, but the present
part that cigarettes did cause lung ca
That’s the way it seems to go.

The Study Group will drop
later or not in materiality on the basis of
the latest report. The group said its “un-
controvertible” report will come out or
not be made public, but they are sure
it will be a lot of things that smokers
go right ahead feeling when there
is no doubt about it being aware

The Study Group knew where
the cigarette industry stood and what
they were going to do. The group said
that the cigarette industry is not going
to make any public statements on this sub-
ject.