NEW YORK TIMES
July 14, 1967

11 BRANDS TESTED
WITH NEW FILTER

Filtron Lab Also Does Work for Cancer Society

By RICHARD D. LYONS
A new type of cigarette filter, one that promises to reduce the amount of harmful material passed to the smoker, 1.84 million times, has been tested by a laboratory in Col-
umbia and its findings will be released today.

The tests, conducted for the American Cancer Society and the Surgeon General’s office, involve 11 brands of cigarettes, including those most popular with smokers. The filters are designed to trap particles that have passed through the cigarette itself.

One of the laboratories doing the testing is Filtron Laboratories Inc., of North Plainfield, N. J. A spokesman for Filtron said the laboratory has also done work for the Cancer Society in the past.

The Surgeon General’s report on smoking and health, released last year, concluded that “cigarette smoking causes cancer” and other diseases. The new filters are an attempt to reduce the hazards of smoking.

In Lucky Strike filters (for
example), the amount of harmful material passed to the smoker 1.84 mil-
lion times. In a Marlboro filter, it was 2.3 million times. In a Chester-
field, 3.5 million times. The tests were conducted by Filtron and by Dr. Jack M. Wilson, of the University of Rochester.

Lucky Strike was found to pass 3.14 million particles of tar into the smoker’s lungs for every puff, while Marlboro passed 2.87 million, and Chester-
field 2.65 million. A relia-
tions of 79 per cent.

Lowest Tar in Marvel
According to the laboratory data, the filter reduces the amount of material that is passed to the smoker. In the analysis for tar, all
11 brands were found to have cigarettes with less than 10 milligrams of tar each. The Surgeon General’s report said that a cigarette with 10 milligrams or more of tar contains an excessive amount.

Of the 11 million smokers in the United States, about 8.5 million smoke either Marlboro or Chester-
field cigarettes.

The filters are made of cellulose acetate, a plastic material. The tests were conducted to determine how well the filters trap particles and how much material passes through them.

Dr. Wilson said he thought that the filters could be improved by using a non-exchange resin and a chromo-
graphic absorbent. “An ideal filter,” he said, “would trap every particle of tar.” He added that some filters are better than others because they have been designed to reduce the amount of material implicated as health haz-

ards.

“No Absolute Claim”
The American Cancer Society has made no absolute claim that this filter will reduce the risk of cancer or other pulmonary disease. A spokesman for the society said the agency is studying the data it has collected and will release further information in the near future.

Dr. Wilson’s explanation included a discussion of the expla-
nation given by several leading scientists regarding lung cancer, which he said is “directly related to the amount of tar inhaled.” He also described the method used in conducting the tests.

The laboratory reports that the filters are 97 per cent efficient in trapping particles. The efficiency of a filter is determined by measuring the number of particles that pass through it.

Charcoal, cellulose acetate and other materials are used in cigarette filters. Charcoal, according to Dr. Wilson, “is an excellent absorber.”

Exchange filters have been tested previously, accord-
ing to Dr. Wilson. He said that Dr. Fred D. Brockwell, of the Roswell Park Memorial Institute, has done work on exchange filters.

Dr. Brockwell’s research included an explanation of how the filter works, the principal components and the method used in testing it.

The tests were conducted by Filtron and by Dr. Wilson. The laboratory reports that the filters are 97 per cent efficient in trapping particles. The efficiency of a filter is determined by measuring the number of particles that pass through it.

Charcoal, cellulose acetate and other materials are used in cigarette filters. Charcoal, according to Dr. Wilson, “is an excellent absorber.”

Exchange filters have been tested previously, accord-
ing to Dr. Wilson. He said that Dr. Fred D. Brockwell, of the Roswell Park Memorial Institute, has done work on exchange filters.

Dr. Brockwell’s research included an explanation of how the filter works, the principal components and the method used in testing it.



