12

NEW LONDON, CONN.
DAY
D. 32,341
NEW LONDON METROPOLITAN AREA

JUN 5 1967

Anti-Smoking Free Time

THE Federal Communications Commission Friday tossed a bomb at broadcasters – ruled that radio and TV stations using cigarette ads must provide an opportunity for equal time to anti-smoking groups.

This would be on the basis of the “fairness” of broadcasting theory – the same theory which should be in charge if necessary. Even the commission, in its announcement, conceded that this ruling meant either the elimination or substantial curtailment of broad-casting harmful – though some cigarette advertising!

It would, certainly, if anti-smoking groups were well organized, as they aren’t, and if they want to follow through faithfully, and there's doubt of that. For instance, a good many physicians are convinced that cigarette smoking is harmful.

still smoke themselves and others have nearly or quite on the dangers “withdrawal” symptoms. Will they seize this opportunity to use broadcast waves to warn listeners-watchers of the dangers inherent in cigarettes? It’s doubtful. Most of them are too busy to attempt it.

Where, then, is the opposition coming from? Perhaps it might be via reactionaries, who played over and over. It leads to good question – whose effort to answer is recognized? Suppose there are numerous anti-smokers who want to be heard?

It’s all based on the premise that the air waves belong to the people, and broadcasters use it only under a favorable license and presumably in a fashion fair to all sides. Hence if this ruling doesn't produce a violent series of arguments it will indeed be surprising.
1005037248

WATERBURY, CONN.
AMERICAN
D. 41,962
NEW HAVEN METROPOLITAN AREA

JUN 5 1967

Cigarettes And Government

The case against cigarette advertising has been so thoroughly and repeatedly udonbted that nobody but a crank still denies the harm that this smoking can do. The federal government has been the one friend of the consumer in this field. The federal government has had an important role in making the cigarette industry clean up its act.

It is not surprising, therefore, that the FCC should take this action. It is also not surprising that the broadcasters will howl. They have been getting away with a lot for years. They’ve been selling their time to cigarette companies at high prices and they’ve been doing it without regard to the public welfare.

The ruling of the FCC says that if a station sells time to a cigarette company, it must also provide equal time to those who want to speak against cigarettes. It is the same principle that has been applied to political advertising for years.

It is not surprising that some people are saying that this ruling will put stations which broadcast commercials still see that some cigarettes must be devoted to smokers will sell themselves to prove that their attitude.

This will likely mean that stations will have to warn listeners that the FCC doesn’t approve of cigarette advertising but it does permit it. It is a curious situation, but it is one that has been forced upon us by the cigarette industry and the broadcasters.

The federal government has done its duty. Now it is up to the people to do theirs. They must stop smoking cigarettes.
1005037248