THE ROBESONIAN
Lumberton, North Carolina
January 13, 1964

TOBACCO REPORT

The big report on smoking and health has been announced, and it’s full of no surprises. What's new is that a committee of experts has decided it is convinced by the evidence available. The evidence itself is the same as before this report.

Nevertheless, the report represents the conclusion of a panel of scientists whose ability to evaluate the evidence has been generally accepted. It is an official opinion by a highly qualified group.

Their opinion is unfavorable to cigarette smoking, from a health standpoint. Its biggest effect is expected to be long range in discouraging young people from taking up the cigarette habit. That gives the industry time to make adjustments in anticipation of reduced sales in the future, and to conduct further research to isolate and eliminate any harmful elements in cigarette smoke. It still is possible that a way may be found to make smoking less hazardous than the report says it is.

Meanwhile, some comparative reports would seem to be in order, showing how the health hazards of smoking rates along with other health hazards. The person whose habits are such that he is exposed to several other health hazards, is far from being assured of a long and healthy life by not smoking. It is not to be assumed that the federally sponsored report on smoking was issued to a nation whose health habits are good. The hazard of obesity, for example, has been well established in the years while the smoking hazard still was under study.

The report on cigarettes and health is much as expected. Its impact is eased by other reports over a 10-year period. The record of tobacco sales shows reaction and recovery after these other reports, and that may be the case again. No sudden, drastic decline in sales is expected.

The federal government and most states have a stake in farmers, which are an important source of tax revenue. Sales have a tobacco control program which is more nearly self-sustaining than most. While it could be hurt by adverse legislation, the tobacco industry is not in a highly vulnerable position. It should be able to survive the immediate effect of the report if prepare for long-range effects smoking balancer.

(Continued on page 8)