400 512/30 34

&

TOBACCO

Soviet Smokers Like U.S. Cigarettes. The Soviet Union of American-Blend cigarettes, resulting from the joint Apollo-Sovin space mission, has opened a potential market for licensed U.S. brands.  The Soviets prefer the taste and aroma of American cigarettes to the oriental-type cigarette, which is more commonly smoked here but the specially packaged cigarettes made in Moscow now are being sold out rapidly. A U.S. manufacturer recently signed an agreement with Sovin to produce and distribute the cigarettes.

In addition to the distinctly Western taste and appearance, the novelty and general popularity of “American” cigarettes has helped sales volume. Sales of the same special brands here have been weak in the United States, where they retail for $1.50 per pack.



THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
Thursday, October 9, 1975

Chrome Pigments Linked to Lung Cancer
By Preliminary Data on Plant Workers

BY ELIZABETH R. HENDERSON Staff Reporter

The chrome pigment industry is facing a serious challenge from its own products.  Preliminary findings suggest that the pigments can cause lung cancer at rates far higher than previously thought, according to a study of workers in three pigment-manufacturing plants.

The industry said it has informed pig-ment workers at plants in Niagara Falls, N.Y.; Willow Island, W.Va., and Louisville, Ky., that preliminary results of the study show a great increase rate of lung cancer among workers exposed to hexavalent chromium and molybdenum compounds—the key ingredients in chrome pigments.

Although just three quarters of the 550 workers involved have been examined, data from the three plants has been too consistent to dismiss as chance, industry officials said.  The study was conducted by Tennessee Cooper Industries Inc., a major pigment manufacturer, for its own use.

One identification of the study shows a death rate among the 350 workers exposed to chrome pigments is 26 per 100,000—a figure that is more than twice the national average for men and nearly three times the average for women.  The cancer deaths represent 8% among men—more than four times the expected rate—and 9% among women.

The study was initiated in 1972 after a series of lung cancer cases were reported at the Tennessee Cooper plant in Louisville. The findings have been submitted to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) for review.



30563:1040