NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE THE NEW YORK TIMES
New York, New York New York, New York
August 3, 1960 August 3, 1960

Cancer Death Jury Links Cancer can Tobacco Company, the cig-
Suit Won by To Smoker’s Death arette maker, was liable for his
death.
Jury Refuses to Find
The jury returned its ver-
Manufacturer Liable dict after more than four hours
of deliberation.
MIAMI, Aug 2 (AP) — A of testimony that included ex-
jury today found a cigarette perts on cancer and the effects
manufacturer liable for the of smoking.
death of a man who died of The jury verdict indicated it
lung cancer. believed that Green’s habit of
The suit was filed in 1958 smoking cigarettes contributed
by the widow of H.G. Green, to his death.
who died in 1959 at the age of It also said that the American
67. Tobacco Co. was liable for
Mrs. Green sought $250,000 damages in the future.
in damages. The jury’s ver- Green, a retired salesman,
dict indicated it believed that started smoking when he was 18
the cigarette company was and continued until his death.
liable for the future. He worked for a wholesale gro-
The American Tobacco Co., cery firm.
was the only defendant in the The suit alleged that the cig-
suit. arette company knew of the
The jury’s verdict is the dangers of smoking but failed
first of its kind in the United to warn consumers.
States. It could open the door Testimony was presented by
for similar suits against other Dr. Robert A. Kyle, a cancer
cigarette companies. specialist, who testified that
Green started smoking when he was 18 and continued until his death.
The suit alleged that Green’s He worked for a wholesale gro-
cancer was directly attacking cery firm.
his lungs. The jury found that The suit alleged that the cig-
cigarettes had contributed to arette company knew of the
a pre-cancerous condition in dangers of smoking but failed
his throat. to warn consumers.
The American Tobacco Co. Testimony was presented by
denied any liability. Dr. Robert A. Kyle, a cancer
specialist, who testified that
Green started smoking when he was 18 and continued until his death.
He worked for a wholesale gro-
NEW YORK POST cery firm.
New York, New York The suit alleged that Green’s
August 3, 1960 cancer was directly attacking
his lungs. The jury found that
Tobacco Firm cigarettes had contributed to
Absolved in a pre-cancerous condition in
his throat.
Cancer Death The American Tobacco Co.
denied any liability.

Miami, Aug. 2 (AP) — A
jury today absolved a cig-
arette firm of responsibility
for the death of a smoker.
It refused to blame
the company for his illness.
The jury decided yesterday
that the American Tobacco Co.
was not liable in the death of
H.G. Green, who died of lung
cancer. The plaintiff controlled has
been dismissed.
Green, who lived until he was
67 years old, had sued the cig-
arette firm for $250,000.
The suit alleged that his can-
cer was caused by smoking cig-
arettes made by the American
Tobacco Co. The company de-
nied any responsibility and said
that Green’s habit of smoking
was solely responsible for his
death.
The jury deliberated for four
hours before reaching its ver-
dict. It refused to blame the
cigarette firm for Green's ill-
ness.
Green started smoking when he
was 18 years old and continued
until his death. He was a re-
tired salesman.
The suit alleged that the cig-
arette company knew of the dan-
gers of smoking but failed to
warn consumers.

100354104
NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE THE NEW YORK TIMES
New York, New York New York, New York
August 3, 1960 August 3, 1960

Cancer Death Jury Links Cancer can Tobacco Company, the cig-
Suit Won by To Smoker’s Death arette maker, was liable for his
death.
Jury Refuses to Find
The jury returned its ver-
Manufacturer Liable dict after more than four hours
of testimony that included ex-
MIAMI, Aug 2 (AP) — A perts on cancer and the effects
jury today found a cigarette of smoking.
manufacturer liable for the The jury verdict indicated it
death of a man who died of believed that Green’s habit of
lung cancer. smoking cigarettes contributed
The suit was filed in 1958 to his death.
by the widow of H.G. Green, It also said that the American
who died in 1959 at the age of Tobacco Co. was liable for
67. damages in the future.
Mrs. Green sought $250,000 Green, a retired salesman,
in damages. The jury’s ver- started smoking when he was 18
dict indicated it believed that and continued until his death.
the cigarette company was He worked for a wholesale gro-
liable for the future. cery firm.
The American Tobacco Co., The suit alleged that the cig-
was the only defendant in the arette company knew of the
suit. dangers of smoking but failed
The jury’s verdict is the to warn consumers.
first of its kind in the United Testimony was presented by
States. It could open the door Dr. Robert A. Kyle, a cancer
for similar suits against other specialist, who testified that
cigarette companies. Green started smoking when he was 18 and continued until his death.
Green started smoking when He worked for a wholesale gro-
he was 18 and continued until cery firm.
his death. The suit alleged that Green’s
He worked for a wholesale gro- cancer was directly attacking
cery firm. his lungs. The jury found that
The suit alleged that the cig- cigarettes had contributed to
arette company knew of the a pre-cancerous condition in
dangers of smoking but failed his throat.
to warn consumers. The American Tobacco Co.
Testimony was presented by denied any liability.
Dr. Robert A. Kyle, a cancer
specialist, who testified that

100354104