NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE
New York, New York
June 7, 1963

Nonsense in Florida

It’s silly season on the cigarette
front again. The Florida Supreme
Court has just held that under
Florida law, a cigarette manufacturer
can be held liable for a death due to
lung cancer.

This makes about as much sense as
allowing a damage suit against the
distiller when an alcoholic drinks
himself to death or letting a driver
sue General Motors when he piles his
car into a tree.

In another case last November, a
Federal court jury in Pittsburgh ap-
proved Liggett & Myers of responsi-
bility in a lung cancer case, on the
perfectly reasonable premise that the
plaintiff, by smoking, had assumed
the risk of injury.

But now the Florida court says
there can be no valid objection to
placing liability on the manufacturer

“If the public health is to be protected
in a practical sense from exploitation
by those who, for profit motive,
undertake to supply the vast and ever
increasing variety of products which
the people by unprecedented powers
of commercial persuasion are daily
urged to use and consume.”

Nonsense!

What the court is saying, in effect,
is that the people can’t be trusted,
that it’s too dangerous to let them
make their own choices. Tobacco
companies, like distillers and manu-
facturers of kitchen knives, exist to
meet a popular demand. Their prod-
ucts involve some risks for the users,
so be it.

Thank Heaven we still live in a
society that lets its people freely elect
to take those risks or not—whether
the risk is a cut thumb, a hangover,
a sore throat, or cancer.

1005036939

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
New York, New York
June 7, 1963

RIDICULOUS RULING

The Florida Supreme Court advises that a tobacco com-
pany can be stuck for damages if a man who died of lung
cancer can prove to have died from smok-
ing an advertised brand of the company’s cigarettes.
A Stab at For no one, thing, there is no laboratory
All of Us to prove that cigarettes ever give lung cancer
to any human being.
If, however, they can show that it kills or if using his ac-
tivities would anybody who fails; or from the re-
warded test product sue the maker; then ruling be-
lieve that industry, and to the U.S., food, tobacco and
drug manufacturers do not contribute to public health.
What they would do is to undermine the whole system of
free choice—tell people how to live—and that’s a dan-
gerous direction.

1005036942