Cigarette Consumption Down Slightly

After Five Years Of Smoking Debate

Washington - The publication of the Surgeon General’s report five years ago brought little actual change in the nation's smoking habits, Dr. Luther L. Terry, who was Surgeon General at that time, said today. He helped to compile the report and is now retired.

“I don’t think the report itself caused any dramatic shift,” Terry said. “It did, however, focus attention on the problem.”

Dr. J. E. Mitchell, MD, MPH, director of the Division of Disease Prevention at the Center for Disease Control, agreed. "The report is a valuable tool, but it’s not a magic wand," he said.

The statistics do compiled are still alarming. The relationship between cigarettes and cancer has been established.

“It's easy enough to make out the facts,” said Dr. Terry. “The trouble is if there is nothing that people want to do about it.”

William K. Russell, former director of the Tobacco Control Research Institute at Harvard University, agreed with Terry’s assessment. "The report has been helpful," he said. "But it hasn't changed behavior."

Dr. Terry also noted that the Surgeon General’s Report was not a consensus document. “There were some who felt we shouldn’t have made as strong a statement as we did,” he said.

He added that the report has been used by anti-smoking groups to further their cause, and that it has helped to raise awareness of the dangers of smoking.

“It's possible," Terry continued, "that the report will serve as a crude index of the base line for future changes.”

Dr. Mitchell said that the report has strengthened by further research. “We now know more about the link between cigarettes and cancer,” he said. “And we know that there are no safe levels of smoking.”

“It’s not enough to tell people what they should do," Terry added. "You have to give them a reason to change their behavior."

Dr. Terry is now retired from government service, but remains active in public health advocacy. He serves on the board of directors of the American Heart Association and the American Cancer Society.

He also served as chairman of the National Conference of Health and Medical Committees.

300565475