NEWS
Hutchinson, Kans.
Jan. 16, 1964

Increase the Tax 30 Cents

Both the Governor and the members hope that the legislature’s budget session can be completed without raising taxes. Except of course, the levies on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. But those don't count because in Kansas they still are symbols of sin.

The News strongly opposes adding another penny a package to the tax on cigarettes. It does so simply because that isn’t nearly enough. The tax should be advanced at least 30 and perhaps even 50 cents.

This proposal, fantastic although it may at first seem, would provide several millions a year in added revenue which the state needs badly, even though it undoubtedly would bring about a sharp drop in cigarette sales.

But this is not the primary reason for making this recommendation. The News does so as a matter of public health. If Kansas once thought it vital to eliminate the common drinking cup and the house fly, today in the light of the Surgeon General’s committee report, it should do what it reasonably can to discourage the use of cigarettes.



INDEPENDENT-RECORD
Helena, Mont.
Jan. 14, 1964

Government Aid in Selling Poison

Everybody's talking about cigarettes, but we’ll lay you 10 to 1 that nobody ever does anything about them.

In fact, we might even go farther and predict that the United States government, which has raised the question of the smoker’s health in a multi-tude of different ways through his use of the weed, will go right along helping him in pieces.

For the biggest foundation to the tobacco subsidy is the license for tobacco growers who have skillfully man aged to keep production high in spite of restrictions of assorted operations.

In other words, we undoubtedly will see the federal government again list the uses of tobacco ripe perils for the farmer if he doesn’t continue to grow it.

The subsidy, as you know, amounts to approximately $75 an acre. This is paid to the growers on the basis of their acreage and production. It has been responsible for keeping the price of tobacco up and for encouraging farmers to plant more of it.

We have no doubt that the government will continue this program to advertise the ills which result from the use of tobacco. We would give odds that none of these will be adopted and would not produce much in the way of results if they were.

If we were serious about stopping or reducing the use of tobacco there are two simple steps which would be effective.

One would be to cut off the support to the tobacco grower. This could even be reversed by requiring a license for the privilege of growing a poison weed and charging a tax for each acre planted.

Then the government could double its tax on the finished product, a tax which already is the biggest factor in the retail price.

The subsidy, as we said, amounts to $75 an acre. This is paid to the growers on the basis of their acreage and production. It has been responsible for keeping the price of tobacco up and for encouraging farmers to plant more of it.

10051549
10051549