George W. Allen, President of The Tobacco Institute, delivered a speech
before the Bright Belt Warehouse Association.

1005150670
VIRGINIA PILOT
Norfolk, Virginia
June 28, 1963

DURHAM MORNING HERALD
Durham, North Carolina
June 28, 1963

Schools'
Tobacco
Ads Out

Allen Asserts Leaf Industry
Not Seeking Youth Smokers

No Promotion
For Youth

VIRGINIA BEACH - (AP) – When they say that the tobacco industry is not seeking youth smokers,
By CHARLES C. RODDEFFER  William decision by the Bright Belt Warehouse Association is a personal one, Allen said.
He added that the association’s position is in line with the Institute's policy of not encouraging
VIRGINIA BEACH - Several The tobacco industry will need research that will provide the young people to smoke.
Virginia manufacturers decided information needed to determine if smoking is becoming “safe” enough for youth, George W. Allen, president of The Tobacco Institute, said here Saturday.  Allen spoke at a luncheon meeting of the Bright Belt Warehouse Association.

He added that the association’s decision by the Bright Belt Warehouse Association is a personal one, Allen said.
He added that the association’s position is in line with the Institute's policy of not encouraging
young people to smoke.

Allen, who also heads the American Tobacco Co., emphasized that the industry has never engaged in promotion aimed specifically at young people.  “We don’t believe it’s good business,” he said.

The Bright Belt Warehouse Association represents approximately 150 tobacco warehousemen and brokers in Virginia and North Carolina.

Allen told the group that the Institute is conducting a comprehensive study of all phases of tobacco production, processing, distribution and consumption.  “We are trying to determine what the facts are,” he said. “And we will make those facts available.”

He added that the industry has been under increasing attack by anti-smoking groups.  “They have made some serious charges,” Allen said.  “It is important that we be prepared to answer them with facts.”

Allen also discussed the recent decision by the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare to conduct a study of smoking and health.  He said the industry will cooperate fully with the government in this effort.

“We believe that it is essential that we have all the information possible,” Allen said. “And we are willing to share what we know.”

Allen was introduced by J. Raymond Adams, president of the Bright Belt Warehouse Association.

The association’s annual luncheon was held at the Cavalier Hotel.  Approximately 150 members and guests attended.

“We don't believe that there is any need for special advertising or promotion aimed at young people,” Allen said. “Our primary interest is in providing a product that meets the needs of our adult consumers.”

Allen asserted that the industry has no intention of promoting the use of tobacco among young people.  “We are interested in the health and welfare of all Americans,” he said. “And we believe that it is our responsibility to provide them with accurate information about smoking.”

He added that the Institute has a number of experts working on this problem.  “They are doing everything possible to determine the facts,” Allen said. “And we will share those facts with everyone.”

Allen also discussed the importance of public relations.  He said that the industry must be prepared to answer questions about smoking and health.  We have to be ready to defend ourselves, he added.

“We are interested in the health and welfare of all Americans,” Allen said. “And we believe that it is our responsibility to provide them with accurate information about smoking.”

He added that the Institute has a number of experts working on this problem.  “They are doing everything possible to determine the facts,” Allen said. “And we will share those facts with everyone.”

Allen also discussed the importance of public relations.  He said that the industry must be prepared to answer questions about smoking and health. We have to be ready to defend ourselves, he added.

The Tobacco Institute is a trade association representing approximately 40 tobacco companies in the United States.

Allen was asked about the recent decision by the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare to conduct a study of smoking and health. He said that the industry will cooperate fully with the government in this effort.

“We believe that it is essential that we have all the information possible,” Allen said. “And we are willing to share what we know.”

Allen also discussed the importance of public relations.  He said that the industry must be prepared to answer questions about smoking and health. We have to be ready to defend ourselves, he added.

The Bright Belt Warehouse Association represents approximately 150 tobacco warehousemen and brokers in Virginia and North Carolina.

Allen was introduced by J. Raymond Adams, president of the Bright Belt Warehouse Association.

The association’s annual luncheon was held at the Cavalier Hotel. Approximately 150 members and guests attended.

2005080704