Vol. 20, No. 24

Family Practice News Dec. 21, 1990

25

Getting Insurers to Reimburse for Smoking Cessation

SAN DIEGO — Physicians should not get questions about insurance coverage when providing smoking cessation treatment, two speakers said in a joint presentation at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Family Physicians.

Insurance companies do not show as much concern about the patient’s need to quit smoking as they do about the cost of treating it, Dr. Gary Franklin, professor of medicine and director of the Tobacco Research Institute at the University of Washington, Seattle, said.

“We have a responsibility to provide treatment for patients who want to quit,” he added. “It is not our job to determine whether or not an insurance company will pay for it.”

Dr. Franklin suggested that physicians should be more aggressive in requesting reimbursement for smoking cessation services. He noted that the cost of treating smoking-related illnesses, such as heart disease and lung cancer, far outweighs the cost of providing counseling and medication.

“If we are going to reduce the burden of these diseases, we have to help people quit,” he said.

Dr. Franklin’s presentation was accompanied by a report prepared jointly by the American Academy of Family Physicians and the American Medical Association that outlines steps physicians can take to improve access to smoking cessation treatment. The report recommends that insurance companies provide coverage for counseling, nicotine replacement therapy and prescription medications.

The report also notes that physicians are often reluctant to prescribe medication for smoking cessation because they are unsure whether the patient’s insurance will cover it. To address this concern, the report suggests that physicians should contact the insurance company prior to prescribing medication to determine coverage.

Dr. James O. Cope, medical director of Health Education Services, Greenville, Miss., said that physicians often face difficulty in obtaining reimbursement for counseling services because insurers require a diagnosis of a comorbid condition before they will pay.

“As long as doctors feel provided with the necessary documentation to support their claims, including patient education and counseling notes, they can be reimbursed,” he said. “The documentation should include such things as wheezes, for instance, should put down ‘chronic bronchitis’ or ‘emphysema.’ If it is associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, that's a diagnosis.”

Dr. Cope added that physicians are also often reluctant to prescribe nicotine replacement therapy because they are unsure whether the patient’s insurance will cover it.

“Whenever you use it in medical practice,” he said, “it’s important to document that it is used with the patient to help them quit smoking.”

Getting Insurers to Understand

Dr. Cope suggested that physicians should work to educate insurance companies about the benefits of providing coverage for smoking cessation treatment. He noted that many insurers are reluctant to provide coverage because they view smoking cessation as a lifestyle choice rather than a medical necessity.

“We need to convince them that it is a medical necessity,” he said. “Smoking is an addiction, and like any other addiction, it requires treatment.”

Dr. Cope suggested that physicians could work with professional organizations, such as the American Academy of Family Physicians, to develop educational materials for insurers. He also suggested that physicians could write letters to their state insurance commissioners urging them to require insurers to provide coverage for smoking cessation treatment.

“We need to be advocates for our patients,” he said. “If we don’t do it, who will?”

Dr. Franklin agreed that physicians have a responsibility to advocate for their patients. He noted that the American Medical Association has recently taken a stronger stance on this issue and is now actively lobbying Congress to require insurers to provide coverage for smoking cessation treatment.

“The AMA recognizes that smoking is a major public health problem,” he said. “They are committed to doing everything they can to help people quit.”

Dr. Franklin added that physicians should also educate their patients about the benefits of quitting smoking. He noted that many smokers are aware that smoking is harmful, but they do not fully understand the extent of the risks.

“We need to make sure our patients understand that smoking is not just bad for their lungs,” he said. “It’s bad for their heart, their brain, and every other organ in their body.”

Dr. Cope added that physicians should also provide support and encouragement to their patients who are trying to quit smoking. He noted that quitting smoking can be difficult, and patients often need help to succeed.

“We need to let our patients know that we’re here for them,” he said. “We’re not going to give up on them just because they relapse.”

Dr. Franklin concluded his presentation by urging physicians to view smoking cessation as an integral part of their practice. He noted that helping patients quit smoking is one of the most important things they can do to improve their health and well-being.

“It’s not enough to just tell our patients to quit,” he said. “We need to provide them with the tools and support they need to succeed.”

Dr. Cope added that physicians should also be familiar with the latest research on smoking cessation treatment. He noted that new medications and therapies are constantly being developed, and physicians need to stay up-to-date so they can provide their patients with the best possible care.

“We need to be lifelong learners,” he said. “The more we know about smoking cessation treatment, the better equipped we will be to help our patients quit.”

A recent survey of 1,000 smokers found that 83% believe that insurance companies should pay for counseling and medication to help people quit smoking. The survey was conducted by Health Education Services.

“Smokers clearly want their insurance companies to help them quit,” said Dr. Cope. “It’s time for insurers to listen.”



Continued on page 27




[Image of a man with a mustache]



Smoking as a Chronic Illness

Dr. Franklin described smoking as a chronic illness, similar to hypertension or diabetes, that requires ongoing management. He noted that smokers often experience withdrawal symptoms when they try to quit, such as irritability, anxiety and depression. These symptoms can make it difficult for smokers to stick with their quit attempts.

“We need to treat smoking like we treat any other chronic illness,” he said. “We need to provide our patients with the support and medication they need to manage their withdrawal symptoms.”

Dr. Cope agreed that physicians should view smoking as a chronic illness. He noted that many smokers relapse after quitting, and these relapses should be treated as opportunities for learning and growth.

“If a patient relapses, don’t beat them up,” he said. “Find out what triggered the relapse and help them develop strategies to avoid it in the future.”

Dr. Franklin added that physicians should also educate their patients about the importance of relapse prevention. He noted that smokers who are prepared for potential setbacks are more likely to succeed in quitting.

“We need to teach our patients how to cope with cravings and other triggers,” he said. “We need to help them develop a plan for dealing with relapses.”

Dr. Cope suggested that physicians could use motivational interviewing techniques to help their patients quit smoking. He noted that motivational interviewing is a patient-centered approach that helps people explore their ambivalence about change and identify their own reasons for quitting.

“Motivational interviewing can be very effective in helping smokers overcome their resistance to change,” he said. “It’s all about empowering the patient to take control of their health.”

Dr. Franklin concluded his presentation by emphasizing the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to smoking cessation treatment. He noted that physicians, nurses, counselors and other healthcare professionals can work together to provide patients with comprehensive support.

“Smoking cessation is not something that any one person can do alone,” he said. “It takes a team effort.”



[Image of a woman smiling]




Reprinted from the November 15 issue of Family Practice News.