FLINT, MICH.
JOURNAL
D. 110879 S. 110,275
FLINT METROPOLITAN AREA

JUL 3 1968

23.

Our Opinion

Ban on Cigarette Advertising
Proposal Should Sound Alarm

THE PROPOSAL by the Federal Trade Commission that all advertising of cigarettes on television and radio be prohibited should trip the warning alarms of any individual who champions called for our basic freedoms.
The FTC, in a three-two vote, calling for the prohibition of such advertising, and an alternative, calls for strict regulation. It would limit the hours during which cigarette advertising could appear to it might appear and the types of programs on which it might appear.

The resolution follows on the heels of a new report from the U.S. Public Health Service in which the PHS charges it has found no indications heavy cigarette smoking can, on the average, shorten life more than eight years.

WE HOLD no brief for the tobacco industry. No offer no defense at this time on the accuracy of the PHS allegations.
Newspapers would, in fact, probably profit by any such prohibition on television and radio advertising turned off other forms of advertising (at least newspaper might profit until the idea became firmly established that government should dictate what products can and what cannot be advertised to the public).

But the argument that cigarette advertising is harmful enough to warrant governmental intervention is a dangerous precedent. Where does it stop?
If we are to accept the premise that advertising is inherently evil, then why not prohibit all advertising? Why not prohibit the advertising of automobiles, which contribute to air pollution? Why not prohibit the advertising of foods high in cholesterol?

It seems clear that the FTC has overstepped its bounds. It is one thing for the government to regulate products that are demonstrably dangerous, such as drugs. It is quite another to regulate products simply because some people believe they are harmful.
The individual has a right to make his own decisions, even if those decisions are unwise. The government should not substitute its judgment for the judgment of the individual.

IF THREE of the five members director doctors have determined obesity can shorten a man’s life even more than smoking will they seek to ban all advertising of fattening foods?
It seems ridiculous. The principle is the same. It is that the government should substitute the judgment of certain officials for the personal decisions of the individual and seek to control the individuals actions through manipulation of the advertising medium.

It is no more or less than that.
This proposal cannot be justified by the urgency of the problem, since the harmful effects of tobacco are accumulative and permit more than sufficient time in which the “victim” can be warned or educated about the dangers of his habit and make his own decision.
Prohibition of such advertising cannot be justified on grounds of public health as it relates smoking may be objectionable in certain ways but no right arises in due degree, bringing no rights of the non-smoker.

IT CAN NOT BE justified on grounds that cigarette advertising is inherently evil or corrupting. The FTC’s proposal sets a dangerous precedent and should be rejected.
The FTC should return to its proper function of policing false advertising, not dictating what Americans can and cannot buy.



201005305