PARKERSBURG, W. VA. 32065
NEWS
PARKERSBURG METROPOLITAN AREA
FEB 20 1982

Opinions of Guest Writers

Old Problems Are Hard to Solve

Because cigarette smoking is not good for people, the Federal Communications Commission would like to ban cigarette advertising on radio and television.

Well and good. It is established, then, as a principle of government that what is bad for people may not be advertised on radio and television. People are pretty dumb, after all. They hear and see things they should not hear and see. They are tempted by what no one ought to tempt them with. And by this route, they proceed to destroy themselves.

Cigarettes are not the only thing that are bad for people. Automobiles are also bad for people. Look at the bulletins from the Automotive Safety Institute. They’re all about accidents and especially on a long holiday week-end.

Patent medicines, soft drinks, head-wear remedies and have their critics—and rightly so. It is often asserted that the American people would live better on less if they did not consume what they do. But who can tell them what they should eat or drink? Certainly not faithfully the advice of their physi-
cians.

And radio and television are not the only means whereby shrewd advertisers press products at uniformed and often insufficient people to spend their money unwisely. Magazines, newspapers and magazines, most of which are guilty in some degree of trafficking in this ignorant business, contend on feeling the need.

It is to their own self-interest—their mission, much broader and far more noble than it is now—that they should get together and put an end to it. It is a thing that you never see or hear of anything that is not good for their health?

A little while ago, we were talking in view of the unhappy experience with the Volstead Act, as few as one might think. Even when the law-makers utterly agreed on what the people should and should not be doing—ing and drinking, for example)—getting them to cease and desist and do so dan-gerous undertaking which raises new problems faster than it solves old ones.
—Huntington Herald - Dispatch.

201608302