Smoking Linked
To Earlier Onset
Of Menopause

By JANE E. BROWN--

Women who smoke are likely to undergo menopause earlier than non-smokers, according to the findings of two separate studies involving more than 5,000 women in seven countries.

In fact, the studies showed, the more a woman smokes, the earlier her menopause is likely to occur. The average age for menopause in smokers is about 1½ years earlier than in non-smokers.

A French study of 1,069 women found that 73 percent of those who had undergone menopause by age 55 were smokers. In a second study, involving 4,289 women in the United States, researchers found that smoking was associated with an earlier onset of menopause in all racial and socioeconomic groups.

The findings are reported in the current issue of The Lancet, a British medical journal. Dr. Richard J. Clarkson, of the University of California School of Medicine, San Francisco, headed the American study. Dr. Michel Marpeau, of the University of Lyons, France, directed the French study.

The studies provide further evidence of the harmful effects of smoking on women’s health, researchers said. They noted that menopause typically occurs between ages 45 and 55.

“Our findings suggest that women who smoke may experience earlier menopause and its associated problems,” Dr. Clarkson said. “This could include a greater risk of cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis.”

The studies also found that the incidence of smoking-related diseases, including lung cancer, heart disease, and chronic bronchitis, is increasing alarm in recent years about the smoking habits of women. Although the percentage of adult men who smoke has dropped from 52.5 in 1965 to 38.9 in 1975, the drop has not been nearly as great for women. Furthermore, more young girls who smoke are smoking more heavily than ever before.

In addition, the number of teen-age girls who smoke has increased sharply, from 19 percent in 1966 to 27 percent in 1975. In the past few years, the proportion of teen-age girls who smoked were smoking a pack or more daily has also risen significantly.

The studies confirm the incidence of smoking-related diseases, including lung cancer, heart disease and chronic bronchitis, is increasing alarmingly among women.

Of the 4,289 women who participated in the two studies was interviewed about their age at menopause, smoking habits, menstrual status and personal habits; menopausal status; race; marital status; education; number of children; and occupation.

The French study included 2,609 women aged 35 to 74, selected randomly from a population of 800,000 in the Lyons area. The American study involved 1,680 women aged 35 to 69, selected randomly from a population of 800,000 in San Francisco and Contra Costa counties.

The average age at menopause for smokers in the French study was 48.7 years, compared with 50.2 years for non-smokers. In the American study, the average age at menopause for smokers was 49.6 years, compared with 51.1 years for non-smokers.

The researchers said that the difference in age at menopause between smokers and non-smokers was statistically significant in both studies. They noted that other factors, such as genetics and socioeconomic status, may also play a role in determining when a woman undergoes menopause.

STUDY LINKS SMOKING
TO EARLY MENOPAUSE

Continued From Page 41

found that ages 46 to 49, a woman who smokes a pack or more a day is nearly twice as likely to have experienced menopause as a woman who never smoked. At ages 50 to 54, the proportion of women who smoked a pack or more a day were past menopause, as against 58 percent of those who never smoked.

Discovery Was Accidental

The association between smoking and the onset of menopause was accidentally discovered as part of a continuing international research project on reproductive health in women. The project is being conducted by researchers of the Center for Demographic and Health Research at Harvard University and Boston University.

The American study, headed by Dr. Clarkson, involved 1,680 women aged 35 to 69, selected randomly from a population of 800,000 in San Francisco and Contra Costa counties. The French study, directed by Dr. Marpeau, included 2,609 women aged 35 to 74, selected randomly from a population of 800,000 in the Lyons area.

The researchers said that the studies provide further evidence of the harmful effects of smoking on women’s health. They noted that menopause typically occurs between ages 45 and 55.

“Our findings suggest that women who smoke may experience earlier menopause and its associated problems,” Dr. Clarkson said. “This could include a greater risk of cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis.”

206308