1-5-6/Ambient smoke

Thurs., Aug. 11, 1977-S.F. Examiner - Page 37

Other voices/ The Examiner’s open forum
for your views on all issues

Second-hand smoke — is it harmful?

By Charles B. Bliss, M.D.

AS A MEDICAL SCIENTIST involved in research I am deeply concerned about the need for California legislation now pending in the California Senate to protect nonsmokers from exposure in places of employment and most public areas. The public has a right to breathe clean air.

Rather than enter the second area, I testify my support for this bill because I believe it is necessary to protect the health of all Californians. I am aware that some people feel that smoking should be allowed everywhere. However, I believe that the evidence now available warrants action.

The proposed legislation would require employers and owners of public places to provide nonsmoking areas. This is a reasonable compromise.

I have been involved in research on the effects of cigarette smoke for many years. I am convinced that exposure to second-hand smoke can be harmful.

The Legislature finds and declares that tobacco smoke is a health hazard. Exposure to such smoke is disturbing to the comfort and desired environment of nonsmokers. The Legislature further finds and declares it is harmful to the health of non-smokers contracted medical problems from second-hand smoke.

A nonsmoker can contract cancer or other diseases because of second-hand smoke.

Before further addressing the questions of disease, let me state my qualifications to address this issue.

I study because it has been determined that cigarette smoke contains many carcinogens. These are substances that cause cancer.

I have published numerous articles on the effects of cigarette smoke. I have testified before Congress and various committees regarding the hazards of smoking.

For example, Dr. Eyeyr Hammon, who is the Epidemiologist and Statistic Research of the American Cancer Society, spoke at the International Conference on Public Education About Tobacco in 1974.

A delegate selected by Hammon has views on the dangers of second-hand smoke and his hazards of summary proceedings of the conference report.

“Dr. Hammon stated that there was no shred of evidence to suggest that exposure to second-hand smoke will not be a trigger for cancer. He said that he would be prepared to state in court, “that exposure to second-hand smoke could cause death as much as direct smoking.”

Dr. Jonathan Shaw, chairman of the National Cancer Advisory Board and a past president of the American Lung Association, has been a strong spokesperson for the anti-smoking movement. He stated:

“I get more hurt had I not directed that there be some protection from second-hand smoke. To my knowledge, it is not, in fact, actually.”

The “Journal of Preventive Medicine” reported an important study on the effects of exposure to tobacco smoke.

It appears that passive inhalation exposes hand smokers to many of the same hazards as active smokers.

Dr. Robert Null, a research scientist at the American Heart Association, has stated:

“Exposure to cigarette smoke is a major contributor to cardiovascular disease.”

I am convinced that second-hand smoke is harmful. I urge you to support this legislation.

Sincerely,
Charles B. Bliss, M.D.
1823 Franklin St.
Berkeley, CA 94704

P.S. — I have been asked to provide a list of references for the information contained in my testimony. These are available upon request.



[Image of Charles B. Bliss’s signature]