LEVEL : - 20 of 84 STORIES

Copyright (c) 1987 McGraw-Hill, Inc.
Business Week

September 28, 1987

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS; Smoking; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: THE BURNING QUESTION AT RJR: NOW WHAT?

BYLINE: By Scott Ticer in Atlanta, with Reginald Rhein Jr. in Washington

HIGHLIGHT:
Its smokeless cigarette faces regulatory and marketing hurdles

BODY:
It does look like a filter cigarette. And RJR Nabisco Inc. insists that’s exactly what it is -- and more. Inside, the company says, it's an innovative marvel that virtually eliminates smoke emitted into the air and reduces to almost zero the tar a smoker inhales. "This represents a major evolution in cigarette design," Edward A. Horrigan Jr., chairman of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Press ESC( for Local Help

(c) 1987 McGraw-Hill, Inc., Business Week, September 28, 1987

Ca., announced on Sept. 14 at a press conference with Richard A. Kannal, a RJR official. But critics say it’s merely a newfangled drug-delivery system nicotine.

Whether the product is a bonanza or a bust -- or even reaches the market may hinge on that debate. The $35 billion tobacco industry is embracing product development to counter growing anti-tobacco sentiment and share in domestic sales. But if those who say it’s not really a cigarette prevail, it could come under regulatory scrutiny from the Food & Drug Administration, which! the power to regulate nicotine as a drug -- but not when it's in tobacco products. "Now that we're entering the era of high-tech alternative nicotine-delivery systems, we want to see these products tested and approved," says Dr. Gregory N. Connolly, director of the Massachusetts Office for Non-Smoking & Public Health.

The product lets tar dry from the conventional role of “smoke” or vapor inside. It uses a miniature cigarette distillation. The tip which is lit then heats a special capsule; air is porous, slow-burning silver of carbon. When the carbon flares, heat and water push a short shot of nicotine. If the container’s “flavor,” rather it isn't through a taste. When the dose of nicotine. Since the tobacco doesn’t burn, it leaves no ash -- a cigarette looks the same as a user’s unit, but it is different.



20231027-1856