NEW YORK TIMES - June 5, 1990

Beginning Scientists Face a Research Fund Drought

By Carl T. Hall

Scientists say that securing funding for basic research has become increasingly difficult, and the situation is particularly acute for young scientists trying to establish careers.

“It’s an enormous problem,” said Dr. Beverly A. Brown, president of the Society for Developmental Biology. “There simply isn’t enough money to go around.”

Dr. Brown says that the National Institutes of Health, the primary source of research funding, has been cutting back on grants in recent years. She and other scientists say that this is because of a combination of factors: increased competition for funds, more long-term grants and inflation.

“We’re seeing fewer awards and each award is larger,” said Dr. Robert A. Sproul, president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. “This means that young scientists are having a harder time getting their foot in the door.”

The situation has become so severe that some scientists worry that it will drive promising researchers out of the field.

“We’re losing people,” said Dr. James E. Strickler, president of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. “They’re going into industry or other fields where they can make a better living.”

Higher costs, competition and
more long-term grants leave
many new applicants in the cold.

Even though the N.I.H. budget has risen sharply in recent years—to $7.2 billion this year from $5.4 billion in 1986—the amount of money available for new grants has not kept pace with inflation and increased competition.

The institute’s policy of awarding more long-term grants, which can last three to five years, also means that fewer awards are being made each year. In 1986, the N.I.H. awarded 12,743 new research grants; in 1989, it awarded only 10,589.

Dr. Donald S. Fredrickson, director of the National Cancer Institute, said that he has been trying to increase the number of awards for young scientists, but that his efforts have been hampered by budget constraints.

“We’re committed to supporting young investigators,” Dr. Fredrickson said. “But we simply don’t have enough money to go around.”

The problem is particularly acute in fields like developmental biology and biochemistry, where research projects often require expensive equipment and supplies.

Young Scientists Face Research Fund Drought

Continued from Page 13

“It’s a vicious cycle,” said Dr. Brown. “You need funding to do good research, but you can’t get funding unless you’ve already done good research.”

Dr. Sproul said that the situation is also exacerbated by the fact that many young scientists are reluctant to take risks and pursue innovative ideas.

“They’re afraid of failing,” he said. “And they know that if they fail, they won’t be able to get funding for their next project.”

The American Association for the Advancement of Science has been lobbying Congress to increase research funding, but so far without success.

“We need more money,” said Dr. Sproul. “And we need it now.”

Tonight's Special:
A Taste of the Past

Experts say the
shortage may drive
promising scientists
out of the field.

The situation has become so severe that some scientists worry that it will drive promising researchers out of the field.

“We’re losing people,” said Dr. James E. Strickler, president of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. “They’re going into industry or other fields where they can make a better living.”

Dr. Strickler added that the shortage of funding is particularly damaging to basic research, which is often exploratory and does not have immediate practical applications.

“Basic research is the foundation of all scientific progress,” he said. “Without it, we wouldn’t have many of the technologies we rely on today.”

Dr. Brown said that the situation is also harming the nation’s ability to compete in the global economy.

“We need a strong science base if we want to remain competitive,” she said. “And we can’t have a strong science base if we don’t invest in our young scientists.”

The National Science Foundation, which supports research in fields like mathematics and engineering, is also facing budget cuts.

“We’re being asked to do more with less,” said Dr. John V. Lilley, president of the foundation. “And that’s not possible.”

Dr. Lilley added that the cuts are particularly damaging to graduate education, which is essential for training the next generation of scientists.

“If we don’t invest in graduate education,” he said, “we won’t have enough scientists to meet the nation’s needs.”

The shortage of funding is also affecting the ability of universities and research institutions to attract and retain top talent.

“We’re losing our best people,” said Dr. Strickler. “They’re going to other countries where they can get better support.”

Dr. Brown said that the situation is particularly troubling because it is discouraging young people from pursuing careers in science.

“We need to inspire the next generation of scientists,” she said. “And we can’t do that if we don’t provide them with opportunities.”

2022850245