HARVARD CRIMSON
HARVARD UNIV.
CAMBRIDGE, MA

JAN 26 1993
BURELLES

EPA Gives Ruling on Smoke

Secondhand Smoke Officially Considered a Cancer Threat

WASHINGTON (AP) — The government as the carcinogens. The report said that those smoke was far Services Department, “to also at time
has officially classified secondhand tobacco smoke among more dangerous than direct cigarette to prevent all who smoke in the of our conference. It is irresponsible
the most serious environmental hazards and it causes lung ailments in smoke has no power to regulate.  It United States” to stop smoking. 
and it causes lung ailments in thousands of nonsmokers said it could persuade the the report could persuade the the report, it is irresponsible-
each year.  industry to take action. OSHA  to smokers to expose young chil-
Indians especially are at risk, has said that it was waiting comple- dren to the dangers of secondhand
as many as 300,000 a year suffering tion of the EPA report before acting. addiction,” he said.
from bronchitis and other ill-related reactions to secondhand The report has been the focus of
smoke, the Environmental Protection tobacco industry spokesper- controversy almost from its incep-
Agency reported. son would have indicated that it tion. 
would have lacked evidence. “Most plants Some scientific reviewers chosen
The risk associated with envi- already have smoking and non-smoking for the EPA to evaluate the report
ronmental tobacco smoke is at least areas,” said a spokesman for the were charged with conflicts of interest
in order of magnitude greater than Tobacco Institute. "My indus- because they had accepted money from a 
the risk associated with any chemical try doesn’t have a problem with non- tobacco industry research organization.
risk that EPA regulates," EPA Admin- smoking areas.”
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
istrator William K. Reilly said.  State University, received a $1 million
The report estimated that second- However, the industry and its grant of more than $1 million from
hand smoke caused 3,000 cases of cancer representatives have submitted Philip Morris while he was reviewing
each year in nonsmokers. hundreds of documents crit- the report.
The long-awaited announcement icizing the EPA’s work and it is  life and the other reviewers denied
prompted health groups to predict believed that they are trying to any knowledge of the money. 
that the agency would take action delay the report. 
on policies regarding secondhand The EPA said that it did not con- Philip Morris, a big tobacco repre-
smoke in workplaces and public sider finding aid or criticism as sentative, John R. Costigan, said
places.  evidence.  in a telephone interview, “We’ll
“This is a landmark day,” said  Reilly said the agency plans to have to see what they say.” 
Michael J. Kennedy, director of work with state and local govern- 
the Environmental Working Group. ments to implement policies to re- Reilly said that he hoped the report
“It’s time for the government to duce exposure to secondhand smoke. would be a catalyst for change in the
take action.”  He also said that the agency will United States, “to reduce smoking
The EPA report concluded that work with the Department of Health and among Americans.” 



20230304