Investor’s Business Daily
“The Newspaper for Decision Makers”

Circulation 152,000 Thursday, January 30, 1992  75¢

NATIONAL ISSUES

IS EPA BLOWING ITS OWN SMOKE?
How Much Science Is Behind Its Tobacco Finding?

By Michael Fennelo
In Los Angeles

“Taken together, the total
weight of evidence is conclusive
that environmental tobacco
smoke increases the risk of lung
cancer in nonsmokers.”

So declared Environmental Pro-
tection Agency Administrator William
Ruckelshaus last week, for the
month, announcing the impending re-
lease of a 300-page report linking
passive smoking to increased rates
of cancer, respiratory illness and
other health problems.

Yet many in the scientific and medi-
cal communities say Ruckelshaus’s
words are not based on its conclusion.

The EPA’s assessment, costing $1.5
million to produce, is a compilation
of studies that show increased risk
of cancer from secondhand smoke. It
will be used by regulators to justify
new restrictions on smoking in pub-
lic places and workplaces.

But the report has been criticized for
its methodology, its reliance on flawed
studies and its apparent disregard for
conflicting evidence.

“The EPA is trying to create a con-
sensus where none exists,” says Dr.
Elizabeth Barrett-Connor, an epidemi-
ologist at UCLA’s School of Public
Health. “They are cherry-picking studies
that support their position.”

Another critic, Alfred W. Pifer,
president of Biomedical and Envi-
ronmental Consultants in Bellevue,
Wash., said: “I did work for the EPA in
the past, but I would not endorse this
report. It’s skewed to show how they
wanted it to look.”

The controversy centers on whether
the EPA report could be considered
scientifically valid. Dr. Pifer says
EPA may have overstepped its bound-
aries by making a judgment about
changing smoking regulations.

“It is not the EPA’s job to make
recommendations,” he said.

Although, in unveiling the report,
Ruckelshaus dismissed critics as being
inadequately informed. It was
promptly expressed that the EPA had
not adequately considered studies that
contradicted its findings.

The EPA itself acknowledges in its
report that “the evidence is not con-
clusive” and that “many of the stud-
ies are limited by methodological de-
ficiencies.” The report also admits that
“it is difficult to isolate the effects of
environmental tobacco smoke from
other risk factors.”

But Werner said the study was faulty.
“The EPA’s conclusions are based on
are very strict rules and requirements on
how studies must be conducted, and these
rules were not followed in many of them,” he said.

The 11 studies together actually
showed a statistically significant increase in
risk only when the results from all 11
studies were combined. The EPA
says that the weight of 11 studies
is more important than the fact that 10
yield neutral.

“It’s like saying, ‘If you combine with
metanalysis,’ say critics, is the EPA’s
way of trying to make a weak case
appear statistical and sound.”

Epidemiologists – those who study
disease patterns – generally agree that
it is difficult to prove cause-and-effect
relationships. “You can’t say for certain
that secondhand smoke has caused
cancer,” says Dr. Barrett-Connor. “It’s
possible, but it’s not proven.”

The EPA report also fails to address
the fact that many of the studies it cites
do not control for other risk factors such
as diet, exercise and exposure to pol-
lutants.

“If you don’t account for these fac-
tors,” says Pifer, “you can get spurious
results.”

The EPA report is expected to be a
major weapon in the anti-smoking ar-
senal. But critics say that it is based on
flawed science and that it will do little
to improve public health.



(Continued on page A16)