Doing a 'Favor'

for non-smokers

Smokeless
cigarette
could be
a hot item

BY MARIE DAVIS
Business Correspondent

"I think," said Harry Mazur, "it’s
that her coughings, Mr. Earl was work-
ing on it for years.” He was referring to
tobacco. Ray must have surely gone off
the deep end.

Mazur is president of American Tobacco
Co., and he's talking about a smokeless
cigarette – the newest idea in the
business. It’s so new, in fact, that the
company hasn’t even given it a name
yet. He says they are working on
something to “make it more appealing.”

The cigarette is made from tobacco
grown in Kentucky and Virginia, and
processed at American Tobacco Co.’s
plant in Richmond.

Mazur said he and his associates are
pleased with the progress they’ve made
so far. "We're doing a favor for non-
smokers," he explained. “They can enjoy
the taste of tobacco without inhaling
smoke.”

The smokeless cigarette is placed in the
mouth, where it dissolves slowly, releasing
its flavor. Mazur said that the product
will be available in several flavors, in-
cluding menthol and cherry.

“We’ve been working on this for years,”
Mazur said. “It's a completely new con-
cept.” He added that the company has
invested millions of dollars in research
and development.

The idea for the smokeless cigarette
came from a customer who complained
that he couldn’t stand the smell of cig-
arettes, but still wanted to enjoy the taste
of tobacco. Mazur said that his com-
pany is always looking for new ways to
satisfy its customers.

“We want to give people what they
want,” he explained. “And right now,
what a lot of people want is a way to
enjoy tobacco without smoking.”

Mazur said that the smokeless cigarette
will be marketed to non-smokers and
former smokers who are looking for an
alternative to traditional cigarettes. He
added that the company is also explor-
ing the possibility of marketing the prod-
uct to people who want to quit smoking.

“We think this product has the potential
to revolutionize the tobacco industry,”
Mazur said. “It’s a completely new way
to enjoy tobacco.”

He added that the company is confident
that the smokeless cigarette will be a big
success. "We're doing a favor for non-
smokers," he repeated. “They can enjoy
the taste of tobacco without inhaling
smoke.”

ADVANCED TOBACCO PRODUCTS: GERRY MAZUR AT THE COMPANY PLANT
...“what we’ve done is to supply higher-tech to an ancient industry”

"We've had a lot of people come in and
say, 'I like the taste of tobacco but I
don't want to smoke,' " Mazur said. “And
we thought, ‘Well, there’s something we
can do about that.’ ”

He said that his former company, the
American Tobacco Co., is committed to
providing its customers with a wide
range of products. He added that the
company is always looking for new ways
to innovate and improve its products.

“We want to be the leader in the tobacco
industry,” Mazur said. “And we think
that this product will help us achieve
that goal.”

He added that the company is excited
about the potential of the smokeless cig-
arette. "It's a completely new way to
enjoy tobacco," he repeated.

Mazur said that the company is also
committed to responsible marketing prac-
tices. He added that the company will
not market the product to minors.

“We want to make sure that our prod-
ucts are used responsibly,” Mazur said.
“And we think that this product will help
us achieve that goal.”

He added that the company is confident
that the smokeless cigarette will be a big
success. "We're doing a favor for non-
smokers," he repeated. “They can enjoy
the taste of tobacco without inhaling
smoke.”



US 2657989665