SCIENCE Wash St - Journal Mar 23, 1979

Scientists Transfer Genes
Into Human Cancer Patient

By MARYLYN CHASE
Staff Reporter for The Wall Street Journal

Scientists at the National Institutes
of Health reported yesterday a remarkable
kind, yesterday implanted a non-human
gene into a patient.

The experiment, which had run a year-
long obstacle course of regulatory ap-
provals and ethical considerations, marks
a milestone of gene-splicing into direct hu-
man application. Earlier, a California
scientist made an unauthorized attempt
to do so, but that effort ended in fail-
ure and considerable controversy.

Steven A. Rosenberg, W. French Ander-
son and their colleagues implanted hu-
cells cancer patient with cells carefully
engineered to carry the gene. The goal
is to monitor ther progress against the tu-
mor. "It's a very experimental proce-
sure because he’s desperately anxious to develop
a treatment," Dr. Rosenberg said. “If this ap-
proach is successful, it will have signifi-
cant implications for human gene therapy.”

The patient was drawn from a group of
volunteers with advanced malignant mela-
noma, a deadly form of skin cancer that
spreads and spreads to other sites in the
body. The team said the patient tolerat-
erated the treatment well." The team is
now awaiting results of tests to see if
as many as 30% volunteers, who have
about a 3-month life expectancy and who
have given their consent for the proce-
dure.

The infusion was done at the Warren
Grant Magnuson Clinical Center on the
NIH campus in Bethesda, Md. It took 30
minutes to infuse about half a liter of
cells suspended in saline solution contain-
ing billions cells bearing the marker gene.
The marker gene is not intended as ther-
apy itself, but is an extension or ex-
tension of the technique for monitoring
for advanced cases of cancer. In the exper-
iments, Dr. Rosenberg ordered a biopsy
of a tumor and then extracted cells
cor-rigging while blood called tumor cell
were added in laboratory. The cells
are instilled intravenously, or with it.
The cells are designed to migrate into tu-
mors, where they will divide, which are
then returned to the patient Column 1