07. 07. 89 10:36AM * CONGRESSMAN LUKEN PO4

Tobacco Companies Turn Up Heat
On Firms Pushing Smoking Bans

By Steve Coll
New York Times Staff Writer

NEW YORK, April 8—Firing ever-more-heated volleys in the war against businesses that publicly support smoking, tobacco companies are moving to punish those that do.

Through aggressive direct mail campaigns and selective use of legal action, the industry is trying to intimidate firms such as R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., which last week announced a $20 million advertising campaign to promote Northern Arizona College’s move toward smoke-free policies. The tobacco companies are using the tactics in pollses and parking lots.

"If we're attacked, we're not going to roll over and play dead," said Walter Huffman, chairman of the Tobacco Institute an industry trade group. “We’re going to activate our advertisers, friendly or otherwise, learn who is attacking us and then we are going to retaliate.”

Last week, the industry has been attempting to impress that message on Northern Arizona College.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1989

Tobacco Companies Turn Up Heat
On Firms Pushing Smoking Bans

By Steve Coll
New York Times Staff Writer

NEW YORK, April 8—Firing ever-more-heated volleys in the war against businesses that publicly support smoking, tobacco companies are moving to punish those that do.

Through aggressive direct mail campaigns and selective use of legal action, the industry is trying to intimidate firms such as R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., which last week announced a $20 million advertising campaign to promote Northern Arizona College’s move toward smoke-free policies. The tobacco companies are using the tactics in pollses and parking lots.

“If we're attacked, we're not going to roll over and play dead,” said Walter Huffman, Tobacco Institute president.

The industry customers, the tobacco companies have been trying to make sure that smoking smokers understand that they are being watched.

One newspaper in Morey, Iowa, complained last week that it had received a letter from Northern Iowa for smoke-free policies an anti-smoking group. “We’re concerned about Federal Aviation Administration standards,” the letter said.

“If we're attacked, we're not going to roll over and play dead.”
— Walter Huffman,
Tobacco Institute president

The tobacco companies are also trying to identify those who are pushing smoking bans.

"We want to know who is behind these things," said a senior executive at one of the major tobacco companies. "Are they employees? Are they activists? We need to know."

The industry has been particularly angered by R.J. Reynolds’ decision to support Northern Arizona College, which is located in Flagstaff, Ariz. The company is spending $20 million on advertising that promotes the college's move toward smoke-free policies.

“We don’t like it when companies take a public position on smoking,” said the executive. “It’s bad for business.”

The tobacco companies are also concerned about the potential impact of smoking bans on their sales. According to one industry estimate, smoking bans could reduce cigarette sales by as much as 10 percent.

“We need to protect our market share,” said the executive. “Smoking bans threaten that.”

The tobacco companies have been using a variety of tactics to discourage businesses from supporting smoking bans. These include:

* Sending direct mail campaigns to businesses that support smoking bans.
* Filing lawsuits against businesses that support smoking bans.
* Threatening to withhold advertising dollars from businesses that support smoking bans.

The tobacco companies are also working with government officials to pass laws that restrict smoking.

“We need to create a legal environment that is favorable to the tobacco industry,” said the executive. “That means passing laws that restrict smoking.”

The tobacco companies are facing increasing pressure from anti-smoking groups and government regulators. These groups and regulators are concerned about the health effects of smoking.

“Smoking is a serious public health problem,” said one anti-smoking advocate. “We need to do everything we can to reduce smoking rates.”

The tobacco companies are also facing legal challenges from smokers who claim that they have been harmed by smoking.

“The tobacco companies knew that smoking was harmful, but they did nothing to warn people,” said one smoker’s attorney. “They should be held accountable for their actions.”



20717089