Union - Tribune - from Page 3
April 4, 1990

Committee hears
smoking discussion

A County Council committee benefits and civil liabilities in cases
meeting was held Tuesday night of non-smokers bringing suit
before the regularly scheduled against smokers.
council meeting to discuss a smoking
Sally Smith, records clerk at the
policy for county buildings. courthouse, said she was afraid
Approximately 20 county of losing records dating back to
workers were on hand to speak 1940 and cannot be replaced," she
before the council on the matter of said. Smith held up a paper that
smoking in public buildings. was taken from the records room
The council took the where a cigarette hole burned
suggestions under advisement and, according to through it.
committee member Dr. Julius Fire Marshal Dewey Mize said
Earle, the committee will present that smoking is a fire hazard.
its finding to the council at early “Companies have suspended insurance
date. A final decision will not be made at this time and he asked for more on buildings in Osceola
public comment. County,” he said. "I want to go
Sheriff’s deputy Steve Pruitt said on record saying we need to control
that although he is a non-smoker, smoking on public buildings.”
he sympathized with those who Council member Harold said he
smoke. “They are addicted just would like to see designated areas
like an alcoholic or drug addict,” he said, for smokers. "I think if we are
“but they make up excuses like a smokers and were fooling ourselves
drunk driver who kills on the when I think that smokers will
highways or a heroin addict spreads smoke," he said. “If you don’t
who robs someone. They need help.” want to smell it, go find somewhere
Pruitt also discussed insurance else.

See COUNTY Page 12-A

COUNTY

Continued from Page 1-A the proposed amendment.
like trash cans. We'll have a good During the regularly scheduled
program if we can just get it done.” council meeting next Tuesday night,
The motion was made by Council the county council will consider a
member Harold to table smoking in policy for county buildings.

208297156