Carolina

CLIPPING SERVICE
RALEIGH, N.C. 27603
TEL. (919) 835-2573

DAILY TIMES NEWS
BURLINGTON, N.C.
CIR. 31,423

MAR 19

ABC 5 Nicotine increased

The Associated Press.
WINSTON-SALEM - A television network program accused tobacco companies of manipulating the nicotine content of cigarettes to addict smokers.

ABC’s news program “20/20” Monday night presented evidence that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., based in Winston-Salem, and other cigarette makers routinely add nicotine to cigarettes during the manufacturing process. The report was based on an interview with a former Reynolds Tobacco Company manager who requested anonymity. The manager told ABC that tobacco companies use reconstituted tobacco cigarette filler to save money.

The filler is composed of tobacco stems and other parts, and contains less flavor and nicotine than tobacco itself, the manager said.

By adding extra nicotine, the cigarette makers are able to restore flavor and nicotine levels, he said.

“Reynolds officials denied the claims.

“They claim that RJR increases the nicotine in its products are false,” the company said in a release. “RJRs’s cigarettes contain the same nicotine in its cigarettes above what is naturally found in tobacco.”

The release indicated that it manufactures its product using the process of denicotinizing, or removing nicotine in excess of natural levels. This results in unprocessed tobacco for all cigarettes.

22 2/2
votes are measured according to Federal Trade Commission rules, the company said. Those levels are published by the FTC and are included in every cigarette ad.

ABC’s allegations were the latest in a round of attacks against the $46 billion tobacco industry.

The report last week, the American Medical Association reported that chemicals of secondhand smoke have been found in the hair of unborn babies. The world's largest fast food chain, McDonald’s, has banned smoking in 1,400 corporate-owned restaurants. And Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders advocated a ban on all cigarette advertising aimed at young-sters.

And, because nicotine is deemed an addictive substance, David Kessler, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, asked Congress for guidance on whether his agency should regulate the manufacturing of cigarettes.

Cable, Bell, Steve Neal, D.H.C., and Howard B. Kester, all attorneys representing tobacco companies, were unavailable for comment Tuesday.

“More are coming under investigation and more smoking restrictions in Congress,” said John Hare, is not a lot of support for tobacco here. There is the tobacco industry or-grees.



20230135C79