THE HERALD NEWS LETTER

SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1962

Smoking



A new study reveals that smoking is more dangerous than previously thought. The study, conducted by the National Cancer Institute, found that smokers are twice as likely to develop lung cancer as non-smokers. The study also found that smokers are more likely to develop other cancers, such as throat and bladder cancer.

The study was based on a survey of 100,000 people who were followed for 20 years. The survey found that smokers had a higher death rate than non-smokers. The study also found that the risk of developing lung cancer increased with the number of cigarettes smoked per day.

The National Cancer Institute recommends that all smokers quit smoking as soon as possible. The institute also recommends that people who do not smoke should never start.

Smoking is a habit that can be difficult to break, but it is important to try. There are many resources available to help smokers quit. These resources include counseling, support groups, and medications.



The study was conducted by Dr. John Smith of the National Cancer Institute. Dr. Smith said that he was surprised by the findings of the study. He said that he had always known that smoking was dangerous, but he did not realize how dangerous it was.

"We found that smokers are twice as likely to develop lung cancer as non-smokers," Dr. Smith said. "This is a very serious finding."

Dr. Smith said that the study should serve as a wake-up call for all smokers. He said that he hopes that the study will encourage people to quit smoking.



The National Cancer Institute has been studying the effects of smoking on health for many years. The institute has found that smoking is linked to a number of diseases, including lung cancer, heart disease, and emphysema.

The institute also recommends that people who do not smoke should avoid exposure to secondhand smoke. Secondhand smoke is harmful to both adults and children.



The study was funded by the National Cancer Institute. The study was conducted at the University of California, San Francisco.



2024939576