STAR

Washington, D.C.
January 27, 1964

Free Cigarettes Barred
By PHS at Its Hospitals

The Public Health Service’s Advisory Committee on smoking and healthful living has issued a ruling 10 PHS hospitals—Smoking and Health. The order calls for an immediate halt to stopping free cigarettes by the Surgeon General, Dr. Luther L. Terry.

The same order urges that the establishment of the program be arranged in conjunction with the hospitals arrange educational efforts on the harmful effects of smoking. Senator Ribcoff (D. Conn.) said, “This is a step in the right direction.” He has urged that the order to curtail free cigarettes be extended to all federal facilities and that an intensive public education campaign be launched to warn people about the dangers of smoking.
“We want to how much damage is done by cigarette smoking after an announcement today cited it as 4,000,000 deaths.” He said. “The time has come for the Public Health Service to take a more active role in educating the public on how much has accepted the principal findings of the Surgeon General’s report on smoking. The first hearing Report of the Surgeon General will be on February 4.

HERALD
Durham, N.C.
February 6, 1964

Free Cigarettes
For VA Patients
Are Prohibited

The official said that all of the free cigarettes distributed to patients at Veterans Administration hospitals must stop immediately.

This action follows a recent announcement by Surgeon General Luther L. Terry and his advisory committee on smoking and health. The committee has concluded that cigarette smoking is hazardous to health.

What effect the order would have on patients who buy their own cigarettes is not known, but it is hoped that this will also decrease the number of cigarettes smoked.

This Administration has been concerned about the distribution of free cig-
arettes to hospital patients and has been working toward a solution.

The advisory committee’s report said that cigarette smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema, and other diseases. It also said that passive smoking is harmful to non-smokers.

The order applies to all VA hospitals in the United States.

Hiram Wald leaves for Richmond today to attend a meeting of the State Highway Commission. He will return Sunday.

Mrs. J.C. McNeill has been named chairman of the Woman’s Club committee which is planning the annual flower show.

The Durham High School basketball team defeated Roxboro Friday night in a thrilling game, 79-74. The score was tied at half time.

A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. James E. Johnson Tuesday at Durham General Hospital.

Mr. and Mrs. W.T. Patterson of Graham have announced the engagement of their daughter, Miss Linda Kay Patterson, to Billy Ray Hargett, son of Mr. and Mrs. C.L. Hargett of Roxboro. The marriage will take place Saturday afternoon at 3 o’clock at the First Baptist Church in Roxboro.

02/05/64/1
02/05/64/1