BALTIMORE SUN
Baltimore, Maryland
January 15, 1964

Nonsmoking Chest Surgeon
Labels Report ‘Nonsense’ Pressman Bans
Office Smoking

A Baltimore chest surgeon who said Dr. William P. Rienhoff of Confirmed smokers among the
has never smoked yesterday said Johns Hopkins University, is city's officials are ready to work
the United States Public Health surgeons on the Johns Hopkins today.
General’s report on smoking Medical School.
“The report is perhaps a long- Confirmed smokers among the
is “nonsense.” Dr. Rienhoff, time in coming,” Dr. Rienhoff said. city's officials are ready to work
Baltimore chest surgeon whose it is certainly enough evidence between today when they report for duty.
views regarding tobacco have been smoking and cancer.
long standing, continued a long- “We know that the chemicals in Today.
time attack on the report. tobacco itself produce carcin-  Officials already obey, in their
“It’s a report full of fancy genic substances,” he said. “The own way, the rule but firm no-
statistics,” Dr. William P. Rien- evidence is overwhelming that smoking signs.
hoff said at a news conference it can be based on nothing com- Comptroller Wyman A. Pres-
Saturday. pletely new.” man, a non smoker, took military
Dr. Rienhoff is professor emeri- “I surprised the Surgeon Gen- action yesterday to enforce the
tus of the Johns Hopkins Medical eral and his staff by saying it,” ban.
School and a former member of Dr. Rienhoff said.  The surprise attack conducted in the
the scientific advisory board to The Baltimore Sun’s office of city hall.
the Tobacco Research Institute.  Rienhoff 3d, who smoked “We have directed that smoking
“They have statistical evidence, but quit two years ago, said will not be permitted in their
but I don’t think they know what he quit because it is down to “a offices,” Presman said. “The divi-
it has to be something to do.” matter of conscience.” sions of the department of de-
“Perhaps I haven’t tried as fense will follow suit.”
much research as some others, but The Federal Report soon under-
I think that it is a report that taken by the Surgeon General
is not based on fact. It is based says that smoking may be re-
on opinion and conjecture.” sponsible for many forms of can-
Dr. Rienhoff said that he cer.  It will also deal with other
doesn’t believe that there is health hazards.
enough evidence to warrant a The report is expected to be
ban on smoking. “I think it is released next month.
a matter of personal choice.”



