NEW YORK POST

New York, New York
April 26, 1964

Page 68

CONSUMER SWINDLES—VII

Stop-Smoking Gimmicks



“Stop smoking in three days.” So will power or self control necessary. Proof effective beyond a question. No “will power” needed!

"Don’t confuse this offer with plans, systems, books, methods, etc., for these remedies remove the desire to smoke!”

All you do, the ad says, is take one "Formu-lax" capsule after each meal and in three days your nervous system is "fooled" into be-
lieving you are smoking a cigarette or pipe.

This sort of promotion has been mushrooming all over the U. S. since General’s re-
port on smoking and health was released in 1964. Since January, Better Business Bureaus
have received hundreds of complaints and inquiries about the sort of "new" anti-smoking pills and lozenges that promise to cure you with out smoking plans and programs costing up to $30 per month.

Careful claims by manufacturers for these products and programs include “miracle effect” and “no side effects.” One ad says, “This is not a substitute for the best method—quitting! It’s a help to quitting!” Another promises that you will "forget" your smoking habit in three days with their “Formu-lax” sounding name-giving up from coat
hangers.

The products themselves are usually some sort of herbal mixture, vitamin pill or mineral supplement. One is called “Nicotine No More.” Another is “Stop-Smoke Tablets.” A third is "No-Smoker’s Aid."

We bought samples of five such products for $15. They were: “Formu-lax,” 30 capsules, $7.50; “Nicotine No More,” 60 tablets, $5; “Stop-Smoke Tablets,” 60 tablets, $4; "No-Smoker’s Aid," 60 tablets, $3; and a “Smoking Stopper” program consisting of a booklet and 30 capsules, $5.

The booklets are usually filled with the same sort of generalities about relaxation and deep breathing that you can get free from the American Cancer Society. The pills themselves contain such ingredients as cabbage, lettuce or just flavored paper— to keep our nervous hands busy and permit us to “forget” we smoke.

We are falling for suggestive "stop smoking" photographs and records, recently the subject of in-
vestigation by the F. T. C.

We are enrolling in a widely hyperbole to so called, “miracle” programs that promise to help us sprint up away from tobacco. We are swallowing 30-minute tablets and how-to-despising pam-
phlets.

Just what is the value of these pills and pro-
grams? Better Business Bureaus’ Dr. Irving Leplin has a few straight answers:

Despite the weight of scientific evidence, there are really "new" substances on the market to help you stop smoking. The claims are often exaggerated or continued to be vague.

The most common types of anti-smoking medications now available are the nicotine sub-
stitutes (such as nicotine patches), and oral medications which contain ingredients such as belladonna (which nullifies, but does not eliminate, nicotine’s effect), and local anesthetics that numb the mouth to reduce nicotine cravings. These substances do not work for everyone, and some may cause side effects.

The best way to stop smoking is simply by your own determination and will power. A doctor can help you with this process.

SYLVIA PORTER



(Copyright 1964, N. Y. News Syndicate)