20 THE APALACHIAN - THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 1993

WORLD/ENVIRONMENT

U.S. tobacco firms’ suit says EPA report is flawed

WASHINGTON (AP) — Tobacco companies and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency are locked in a bitter legal battle over the agency's recent report linking secondhand smoke to cancer.

The report, released last month, concluded that exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, or ETS, causes an estimated 30,000 lung cancers annually and contributes to as many as 53,000 deaths each year.

Several tobacco companies have filed suit in U.S. District Court challenging the report’s methodology and its conclusions. The EPA has asked a judge to dismiss the suits, saying the agency acted properly in preparing the report.

The lawsuits contend that the EPA relied on flawed data and ignored evidence contradicting its findings. They also accuse the agency of exceeding its authority by issuing the report.

“This is an attempt by the EPA to legislate through regulation,” said Richard J. Parrillo, general counsel for Philip Morris Cos. Inc., one of the companies suing the agency. “The EPA’s role is to protect the environment, not to tell people how to live their lives.”

The EPA defends its report as a comprehensive assessment of the health risks associated with secondhand smoke. The agency says it relied on peer-reviewed scientific studies and expert testimony in preparing the report.

“We stand by our findings,” said Daniel Rauber, an EPA spokesman. “This is a serious public health issue, and we have a responsibility to inform the American people about the dangers of secondhand smoke.”

The suits also raise questions about the impartiality of some scientists involved in preparing the report. One scientist, Richard T. Brunmeier, worked as a consultant for the Tobacco Institute, an industry trade group.

Brunmeier said his work for the institute did not influence his scientific judgment. “I conducted my research independently,” he said. “My conclusions were based solely on the data.”

The EPA acknowledged that Brunmeier’s involvement could raise questions about impartiality, but it defended his inclusion in the study.

“Dr. Brunmeier is a respected scientist in his field,” Rauber said. “His expertise was valuable to the process.”

The suits seek to have the report invalidated and to prevent the EPA from using it as a basis for regulations limiting smoking in public places.

Industry representatives say the report is being used to justify restrictions on smoking that go beyond what is necessary to protect public health.

“This report is flawed,” said Parrillo. “It’s being used to impose unreasonable burdens on smokers and businesses.”

Rauber said the agency will vigorously defend its report in court. He added that the EPA remains committed to protecting public health from the dangers of secondhand smoke.

Parrillo said the industry has a responsibility to educate people about the risks of smoking, but he opposes government mandates.