15-JAN-1993 11:14                                  P. 02/09

THE CHINA POST
Commentary

Thursday, January 7, 1993

Health

EPA says second-hand
smoke causes cancer

Fresh restrictions seen to emerge

Associated Press
New York - The federal Environmental
Protection Agency will release a long-delayed
report today concluding that exposure to sec-
ondhand smoke is a human carcinogen and about
3,000 lung cancer deaths each year are linked to
EPA officials said Tuesday.
The report, mandated by the 1986 Clean Air
Act, also finds that second-hand smoke increases
the risk of respiratory problems in children.
Officials said the report, the result of more than two years
of study, will likely trigger a renewed push for fed-
eral, state and local regulations limiting smoking
in public places, including workplaces.
“Having the EPA’s imprimatur on this is ex-
tremely important,” said Dr. Richard P. Marlotte,
a spokesman for the Coalition on Smoking Or-
Health, which includes the American Lung Asso-
ciation and the American Heart Association.
“The believe this will motivate govern-
ments to take action to protect public health.”
But government officials said federal regu-
lations are unlikely in the near future. The Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Administration is
considering regulations on workplace smoking,
but a White House official said President Bush is
unlikely to support broad federal restrictions.
“There are other more pressing priorities for the
public health,” the official said.

Miller called on President Bush to use the
report as an opportunity to take action and im-
plement federal guidelines. “This is far too controversial
to leave up to individual states or localities,” Mil-
ler said.
The report concludes that second-hand smoke
contains a mixture of chemicals, including those in
the same class as asbestos, benzene and radon, EPA
officials said.
The report’s authors determined that if sec-
ondhand smoke causes about 3,000 lung cancer
deaths annually, it also increases the risk of in-
creases the risk of pneumonia, bronchitis, and
middle ear infections in children. The report al-
so states that cigarette smoke has been linked to
the severity and frequency of asthma in children,
EPA officials said.
The report’s findings are based on a review of re-
ports institute said were not supported by sufficient
scientific data. Many members of the research
team resigned from the EPA over what they called at
mistortendious cover-up. The have looked at
the report and confirmed

The report will be released by EPA Adminis-
trator William Riley in a ceremony this morning.
The report was prepared by an independent ad-
visory committee of scientists, but EPA officials
have reviewed and edited the final version.



2025996557