DURHAM MORNING HERALD
Durham, North Carolina
April 24, 1963

Cigarettes Called
‘Tax Exploited’

WASHINGTON (UPI) — The flat rate cigarette tax in the United States, while state-to-state, is “exploiting” consumers and should be replaced by a system of progressive taxes, a report said today.

The medium-priced cigar-ette industry, in its mark for the second straight year, has been the fastest growing segment of the cigarette market, according to Business News,” said taxes on cigarettes amount to more than double the price.

“The total tax load on cigarettes is now $3.9 billion a year, the largest single tax in America, twice as high as the next highest – liquor taxes,” the report said.

Giving figures from the Census Bureau, the report said that 48 per cent of all families in the United States pay no federal income taxes but nearly every family pays cigarette taxes.

“The flat rate system is unfair to low-income families who spend a larger percentage of their incomes on cigarettes,” the report added. “It also encourages illegal smuggling across state lines.”

STAR
Wilmington, N.C.
April 24, 1963

Publication Hits
At ‘Exploitation’
Of Tobacco Users

WASHINGTON (UPI) — The flat rate tobacco tax has become an exploitation of users and should be changed, a tobacco industry publication has charged.

The report said the average price of cigarettes goes into taxes, ac-cording to Tobacco News, the Tobacco Institute publicaton.

Automobiles were taxed at $350 each, while the cost about
$6,000 the institute said.

SMOKERS TAXED

Washington (UPI) — Nearly half the cost of a package of cigarettes goes into taxes, ac-cording to the Tobacco Institute.

Automobiles were taxed at $350 each, while the cost about $6,000 the institute said.

RECORD
Hackensack, New Jersey
May 10, 1963

SMOKERS TAXED

Washington (UPI) — Nearly half the cost of a package of cigarettes goes into taxes, ac-cording to the Tobacco Institute.

Automobiles were taxed at $350 each, while the cost about $6,000 the institute said.

204528981. 6

RANDOM JOURNAL
Madison, New Jersey
May 9, 1963

TAXES ON SMOKERS

Washington (UPI) — Nearly half the cost of a package of cigarettes goes into taxes, ac-cording to the Tobacco Institute.

Automobiles were taxed at $350 each, while the cost about $6,000 the institute said.

SMOKERS TAXED
Washington (UPI) — Nearly half the cost of a package of cigarettes goes into taxes, ac-cording to the Tobacco Institute. Automobiles were taxed at $350 each, while the cost about $6,000 the institute said.

SMOKERS PAYING MORE

WASHINGTON (UPI) - The average smoker is paying more in taxes than ever before, a study released today shows.

The study, made by the Tobacco Institute, found that federal and state excise taxes now account for 47 per cent of the retail price of cigarettes. This compares with 39 per cent five years ago.



