EVE. AVALANCHE-JOURNAL
Lubbock, Texas
April 5, 1963

MEDICAL PROFESSION “STAMPEDED”

“False Belief” In Cigaret-Lung

Cancer Link Cited By VA Doctor

SAN MATEO, Calif. (UPI)—The joint panel discussion during his views on the principal reasons
which has been noted by the U.S.
the annual meeting of the California State Medical Asso- for the increased incidence of lung
ciation into a “false belief” about the cause of lung cancer cancer. Associated Indemnity
caused cancer lung cancer, according to Dr. Charles T. Hyde, Association surgeons have found
chief of surgery at the Veterans Administration Hospi- appliance of cigarettes as the main cause
tal in Long Beach. He appeared as a speaker at the meeting of lung cancer.
of the California Medical Association.

Dr. Hyde said yesterday that he has cancer as child of “This may well have been
the patient, and that the patient’s family history is likely caused it at the time. The respective Administration has  been stamped into a false belief,” Dr. Hyde stated. 

He appeared at a conference in Long Beach, Calif.



LONG BEACH TELEGRAM
Long Beach, California
March 27, 1963

Doctor Sees
No Cancer Link,
Cigars, Pipes

By ROBERT J. BURKE
Staff Writer

LONG BEACH—A prominent surgeon asserted yesterday that there is no conclusive evidence linking cigar and pipe smoking to lung cancer.

Dr. Charles T. Hyde, chief of surgery at the Veterans Administration Hospital here, said cigarette smoking is “clearly” associated with lung cancer but that cigars and pipes are not necessarily a hazard.

Hyde spoke at an annual meeting of the Cali-
fornia Medical Association in Long Beach.

He said that while there has been an increase in lung cancer among cigar and pipe smokers, this may be due to the fact that these people tend to live longer than cigarette smokers.

“We have not established a causal relationship,” Hyde said. “It is possible that they are simply living long enough to develop cancer that would have occurred anyway.”

The reports of Dr. Joseph
Farbish, Mayo Clinic, in-
cluded an analysis of 1.8 billion man-hours of industrial work, which suggested that men in occupations with high exposure to asbestos and other industrial irritants had a higher incidence of lung cancer.

Dr. Farbish said that the increased risk was not necessarily related to smoking.

He also reported on a study
of 400,000 life insurance company policyholders, which showed that death rates from lung cancer were significantly higher among those who smoked cigarettes than among cigar and pipe smokers.

205309647

Reports which show lung cancer are developed spontane-
ously in some people who do not smoke.

He said this phenomenon has increased through-
out the years, and he is trying to determine why.

Hyde also discussed the problem of “false beliefs” about lung cancer. He said that many people believe that lung cancer is always caused by smoking, when in fact it can be caused by other factors such as exposure to industrial pollutants or genetic predisposition.

“We need to educate the public about the true causes of lung cancer,” Hyde said. “It is not simply a matter of telling people to stop smoking.”



