New recommendations for building maintenance services

Greater awareness of health hazards

THE streets of London’s West End had no resemblance to the scenes earlier this year. News media told how a mysterious killer made its secret lair in surrounding buildings to claim victims, as shown below. Men in white coats were

shown struggling against time to identify and eliminate Legionnaires’ disease once more. The term “killer” was applied to the sickness within the building systems. Buildings are not just into the ventilation system. There is a world of difference between the bacterial infections associated with contaminated water and those arising from the pneumonic bac-
teria, which can be both rooted in the poor design and maintenance of building service systems.

The health hazards arising now material occuppiers are increasingly aware of legal risks if clean and legal buildings cannot ensure they do up their act.

A recent Royal Society discussion meeting held by scientist-
as well as water-handling engineers, highlighted the priority of identifying the source of a problem supply. The disease is believed to have been caused by a type of bacteria that thrives in warm, stagnant water. It has been found in air conditioning systems, hot and cold water tanks, and even ornamental fountains.

More than 70 outbreaks of
Legionnaires’ Disease
since the bacteria was
discovered.

than half the public buildings it investigated.

more than 70 epidemics since the disease was discovered. The worst hit area in world was Manchester Legion-
naires’ outbreak in Philadelphia, after which
the hot water systems were traced to the work of Paul Godwin of Sinclair Knight Partnership, consulting engineers. He said that ironically some health dangers in the building service systems are not used, but this must be coupled with a proper maintenance and regular testing of all water systems, especially those where there is a risk of bacterial growth, says Mr Godwin.

Materials may come eliminated, but it can be prevented by ensuring that buildings have adequate filtration and drainage. The simple and trouble-free method is to ensure the system is properly cleaned. This must include flushing out dead ends and removing any standing water. It is also important to maintain a consistent temperature in all parts of the system.

The problem of Legionnaires’ disease has been known for less unless interpreted prop-
erly, but it is likely that these were partly blamed by the public. The first association with the build “killer” was when a sudden growth of legionella.

The recommendations may have followed standard recommen-
dations from experts such as April and Marther than those who had experience take account of the unusual circumstances.

There is no reason why hot water systems cannot be used, but this must be coupled with proper maintenance and regular testing of all water systems, especially those where there is a risk of bacterial growth, says Mr Godwin.

Materials may come eliminated, but it can be prevented by ensuring that buildings have adequate filtration and drainage. The simple and trouble-free method is to ensure the system is properly cleaned. This must include flushing out dead ends and removing any standing water. It is also important to maintain a consistent temperature in all parts of the system.

The problem of Legionnaires’ disease has been known for