SENT BY:PHILLIP NORRIS S/I
10-28-92 11:01 AM
06421492#1
41 36 312 476# 2

WP 10/28 EPA Advisers Call Smoke a Hazard of ...

EPA Aids Call Smoke a Hazard to Health of Children
By Tom Kenworthy
Washington Post Staff Writer

A panel of scientific advisers to the Environmental Protection Agency yesterday approved a report concluding that involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke is a significant health hazard to children and that environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is a known human carcinogen.

The approval of the report by the executive committee of EPA’s Science Advisory Board has no immediate practical effect because it must be reviewed by EPA Administrator William K. Reilly and because EPA has no authority to regulate indoor air pollution. But if approved by Reilly, the report, several years in the making, could have a dramatic effect on how state, local and federal government agencies regulate smoking in the workplace.

“We are hoping that OSHA will prohibit smoking in the workplace,” said John F. Banzhaf, executive director of the antismoking organization, Action on Smoking and Health. Banzhaf said the report would give organizations like his potent new ammunition to persuade legislative bodies at the state, local and federal level “to go from separating smokers to a virtual ban on smoking indoors.”

In addition, Banzhaf, the report also could affect the way courts settle child custody battles and lead to court orders prohibiting smoking in homes with children.

EPA science advisers have been reviewing the report for several years. A version of the one approved yesterday was first adopted by a separate panel of the Science Advisory Board almost two years ago.

The report concludes that environmental tobacco smoke causes 2,500 to 3,250 lung cancer deaths per year among nonsmokers and former smokers. In addition, it says that ETS causes as many as 300,000 lower respiratory tract infections among children every year.

The Tobacco industry has disputed the scientific basis of the report as it worded its way through the years-long Science Advisory Board review process. “This report doesn’t make a whole lot of scientific sense,” Brennan Dawson, a spokesman for the Tobacco Institute, said yesterday. Dawson said the report assumes "similarities" between the effects of direct exposure to tobacco smoke through smoking and indirect exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.

Banzhaf predicted the report could bring about major changes in such places as restaurants, many of which now have separate smoking and nonsmoking sections but win in the future may have to be banned altogether.



202481735