New College Freshmen
Show Shifts in Attitudes

WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 (AP) — A sur- cent indicated “making more money”
vey of members of the class of 1992 was a very important factor in the
shows that the students are get- decision to attend college.
ting less financial assistance from the At one time interested in entering
Federal Government and are increas- business, now only 18 percent, up
ingly interested in college as a way from 14 percent in 1987. Survey
to a high-paying job. officials said the results suggest
The survey of last fall’s incoming that student interest in business ca-
college freshmen was taken by the reers may have increased in re-
American Council on Education, sponse to the dramatic increases of
in cooperation with the University of the 1980s.
California at Los Angeles. The survey also found that Federal
The proportion of freshmen who loans are now a more important
identified themselves as con- source of aid than ever before.
servative or far right was 22 percent Only 16 percent of the students
the lowest in the 20 years the survey entering college last fall had their
has been taken. But large numbers parent’s major aid program, Pell
asked about political issues were grants, for low-income and mid-
asked about public education, income families that was the di-
abortion, disarmament and com- minant source of aid.
puter protection. Students reported greater reliance
“Liberal” Seen as “Important” on family contributions, savings, loans
“It’s because of the beating the word and college employment. For in-
liberal has taken,” said Kenneth C. stance, 30 percent of the students re-
Green of UCLA, associate director of ported receiving aid from their fami-
the survey. “The label doesn’t mean lies, up from 25 percent in 1980.
means important.” On the other hand, the survey found

The students get
green ‘id but seek
bigger jobs

that the proportion of freshmen re-
porting that their parents were con-
tributing to their education dropped
through the 1980s, from 38 percent
in 1972 to 25 percent in 1987.
The survey also showed a shift in
the reasons students give for attend-
ing college. In 1966, the most com-
mon reason was “to get a degree.”
Now, the most common reason is “to
prepare for a career.”

“Students are more focused on their
careers than they were in the past,”
said Green. “They’re thinking about
what kind of job they’ll have after
graduation.”

The survey also found that 31 per-
cent of the freshmen said that “get-
ting a better job” was a very im-
portant reason for attending college,
up from 24 percent in 1987. The per-

“I’m not going to
sit around and wait
for opportunity to
knock on my door.”
— Michael J.
O’Malley, 18,
of Chicago.

The survey also showed that the pro-
portion of freshmen who said that
“getting away from parents” was a
very important reason for attending
college dropped sharply, from 36 per-
cent in 1972 to 15 percent in 1987.
The survey found that 40 percent of
the freshmen said that “being near
home” was a very important factor
in their decision to attend college,
down from 51 percent in 1972.

The survey also showed that the pro-
portion of freshmen who said that
“going to school with friends” was a
very important factor in their deci-
sion to attend college dropped sharp-
ly, from 30 percent in 1972 to 14
percent in 1987.

The survey also found that the pro-
portion of freshmen who said that
“school prestige” was a very impor-
tant factor in their decision to at-
tend college dropped sharply, from 30
percent in 1972 to 14 percent in
1987.

The survey also found that the pro-
portion of freshmen who said that
“cost” was a very important factor
in their decision to attend college
rose sharply, from 15 percent in 1972
to 30 percent in 1987.



