second fiscal quarter of $56 million from $14 million a year earlier, in large part because of a $40.5 million charge for early debt payment. The parent of Grand Union Co. supermarket chain said the 1992 results reflected $3.5 million in expenses for the company’s $1.3 billion recapitalization. Sales for the quarter ended Oct. 10 were reported at $661 million, down 3.9 percent from the previous year's $687.7 million. The company blamed the decline on poor weather in Northeastern resort areas, low food prices, the recession, and news that Grand Union is looking to sell its Southern region stores.

"Dinkins to Propose $162 Million in New Taxes to Plug Budget"
The Associated Press (11/17/92)

New York - Mayor David Dinkins will propose $162 million in new taxes on alcohol, cigarettes, commuters and commercial use of fuel to help close a $1.3 billion gap in next year’s budget, the Daily News reported today. Dinkins will release the tax package for the fiscal year beginning next July 1 on Thursday, along with a new long-term financial plan, the News said. According to the newspaper, the proposal would raise $67 million by increasing the income tax on commuters. Those who live in suburban New York State would receive rebates, but commuters from Connecticut and New Jersey would not. Similar plans have met with disfavor in the state Legislature in the past. Dinkins’ proposal would raise $39 million in "sin" taxes on alcohol and tobacco, of which $10 million would be dedicated to an anti-smoking campaign, the News said. The package also includes a $56 million tax on the commercial use of fuels, the newspaper said.

"Smokeless Workplaces Cut Overall Tobacco Use"
United Press International (11/18/92)

New Orleans - A University of California, San Francisco, study indicates that office no-smoking policies influence workers to cut down on smoking during their off hours. If a business enforces a smoking ban, the researchers found, the number of regular smokers in the workforce is reduced by one third from 21 percent to 14 percent. In addition, there would continue to smoke 21 consumers averaging no one pack week less than those smokers who work in places having smoking restrictions. Overall, the results estimate, workplace policies could reduce the amount of tobacco use by 51%, or 19 cigarettes a day.

"We’ve shown that if you implement a no-smoking policy at your workplace, you can have a significant effect on cigarette consumption," said Dr. Alan Maverly, lead author of the study, which appears in today's issue of the Journal of Public Health. "The reduction is not just among smokers; it also affects non-smokers." The study involved 237 workers at a California electronics firm.

2042-4578