SECTION B

SATURDAY, MARCH 3, 1984

The Post

Antique Jewelry Expert Seeks Florida Treasures

(Continued on Page 6)

"There's a lot of it out there," says
Jeweler James Daugherty. "People are
throwing away valuable pieces."

By LORI A. JONES

JACKSONVILLE - James Daugherty is
on the hunt. Not for gold or silver, but
for antique jewelry. And he’s hoping to
find some in Florida.

Daugherty, a nationally recognized
expert in antique jewelry, has been in
business for 25 years. He owns Daugh-
erty & Co., an appraisal and sales firm
in Atlanta.

"I'm always looking for pieces," he
said during a recent visit to Jacksonville.
“There’s a lot of it out there. People are
throwing away valuable pieces.”

Daugherty specializes in jewelry from
the Victorian era (1837-1901) and the
Art Nouveau period (1890-1910). He
says these pieces, often made with gold,
silver, diamonds, rubies, emeralds and
pearls, are becoming increasingly rare.

“The quality of craftsmanship was
much higher back then,” he explained.
"They didn't mass produce things like they
do today."

Daugherty’s expertise is in demand. He
is frequently called upon to appraise
jewelry for insurance purposes and to
authenticate pieces for auction houses.
He also buys and sells antique jewelry.

“I get calls from all over the country,”
he said. “People will call me and say,
‘I have this old piece of jewelry. Do you
think it’s worth anything?’ ”

Sometimes, he says, the answer is yes.
"I've seen pieces that were worth tens of
thousands of dollars," he said. "They
were being sold for pennies on the dollar."

Daugherty attributes the low prices to a
lack of knowledge about antique jewelry.
Many people don’t realize they have a
valuable heirloom, he says.

“People are downsizing and getting rid
of things,” he explained. “And often,
they just want to get rid of it quickly.”

Daugherty is particularly interested in
pieces with unique designs or unusual
gemstones. He also looks for pieces that
have been signed by well-known jewelers.

“The signatures are important,” he said.
"They can help identify the maker and
determine the value of a piece."

He says Florida is a promising area to
search for antique jewelry. The state has
a rich history, and many families have
passed down heirlooms through generations.

“I’m hoping to find some hidden trea-
sures,” he said. “There are still a lot of
pieces out there that haven't been dis-
covered.”

Daugherty is offering a reward for any
information leading to the discovery of
antique jewelry. He can be reached at (404)
261-3578.

“I’m always looking for pieces,” he re-
peated. “And I'm willing to pay good
money for them.”



SECTION B

2/9/31/23457

J.M. Jones