Nielsen

Television Measures the Net

The folks whose TV usage produce the first solid survey
of the Internet. Their finding: its nearly ready for prime time

BY JULIAN DIXWELL

THE DEBATE has a word for it:
"hype." Those who work in the
power industry calls hopeful
predictions about nascent, slow-to-materialize products, whether
they are electric cars or broadband,
nothing especially glamorous about
the 28-year-old computer network
that’s now sweeping the globe. But
guesses that the Internet has remained
a niche hobby for years have been wrong
for at least two years. The big question
is how many people see the
Internet as a mainstream medium. Most
of those numbers are little more than
educated guesses, ranging from 10 million
to 50 million and are substitutes for time-
consuming, expensive research demand-
ing large samples of people who use it.

A new company, Nielsen Media Re-
search, says it has solved the hard data
problem. It has just completed a survey
of Internet usage among 127 million
U.S. households. The results, which
Nielsen is releasing today, suggest that
the Internet is already being used by
roughly 15 percent of U.S. house-
holds—about 18 million homes—on an
average weekday.

“We’re seeing a lot more people using
the Internet than we thought,” says
Steve Swartz, Nielsen’s senior vice presi-
dent for new media services. “The
numbers are growing rapidly.”

Nielsen’s survey is based on a sam-
ple of 107,000 households that have
been equipped with electronic meters
that track TV viewing and Internet use.
The company has been collecting data
for six months. Nielsen also uses data
from its telephone surveys to supplement
the meter readings.

“We’ve developed a pretty sound method-
ology—and the fact that it
said Wall Street is wanted to
hear—the results are likely to be accept-
able,” says D’Arcy Merrill.

Not that the lack of solid data seems
to have slowed down investment in
a piece of the Internet action before
now. “I have never seen so much
money thrown at a product with so little
information,” says O’Reilly vice presi-
dent Tim Porter. Nielsen’s survey should
accelerate the rush of media companies
and advertisers to stake claims on
the Internet, particularly in the upscale
neighborhoods of the World Wide Web.

The Nielsen survey also seems likely
to spur more sophisticated research.
Niche marketers will want to slice the
data by demographics—age, gender, seg-
menting into even finer seg-
ments—allowing marketers to gather data on its

WHO’S ONLINE?

18 & 27 million, or 17% of U.S. homes
have at least one Internet user.

30 million people use the Internet
at least once a week.

54 million people used the Internet
during the past three months.

The average online household has
1.6 users.

Online usage is highest among
households with incomes of $75,000 or more.



[Image of a graph showing internet user demographics]