-19-
APR 10 1995

THE NEW YORK TIMES, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1995

Black Teen-Agers Are Turning Away
From Smoking, but Whites Puff On

By PHILIP J. HILTS

WASHINGTON, April 18 — Black teen-agers have largely quit smoking, a habit that is taking its toll on white teenagers, according to a study released today by the National Cancer Institute.

“The single most interesting change is the use of tobacco in black teen-agers,” said Dr. Michael Erickson, chief of the behavioral science branch of the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. “We like to boast that we get to others, but we haven’t figured out how to do that yet.”

The trend is striking:

In surveys of thousands of high school seniors around the country, 28 percent of black teen-agers smoked one or more cigarettes daily in 1995, down from 37.6 percent in 1976. Among white teenagers, 25.6 percent smoked daily this year, up from 23.4 percent in 1976.

The study by researchers at the National Cancer Institute and the Centers for Disease Control found that smoking rates among black teen-agers have dropped more sharply than those of white teen-agers over the last two decades. The decline is particularly pronounced among young black women, who smoked at a higher rate than their male counterparts in 1976 but now smoke at a lower rate.

“It’s a remarkable change,” said Dr. Elizabeth Baker, an epidemiologist at the National Cancer Institute and lead author of the study, which appears in today’s issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. “We don't know exactly why this has happened.”

How Teen-Agers
Have Changed

Percentage of high school
seniors who smoked one or
more cigarettes a day in the
previous 30 days.

The shift
reflects social
pressure,
scientists say.

25 WHITE
20 BLACK
15
10
5
0
1976 78 80 83 86 89 91 93 95
Source: National Cancer Institute,
University of Michigan

[Image of graph]

City. Mindy Bynum, a junior at Brooklyn Tech in New York City, said that smoking is “not cool” among her black friends. “It’s just not something we do,” she added.

Dr. Erickson suggested that the decline in smoking among black teen-agers may reflect a combination of factors, including increased awareness of the health risks associated with smoking and greater social pressure to abstain.

“It is not a function of school perform-
ance or dropout rates or parental
income,” Dr. Erickson said. “In each of those categories,
we’ve seen that the groups who smoke were two to three times as high
as the black teen-agers in the black teen-agers.”

“For example, among dropouts, the rate was two to three times
more likely to be smokers,” he added.

The lower rate among blacks also
may reflect a greater awareness that
teen-agers themselves are more black
than white, Dr. Erickson said, increasing their
fear of detection and driving them out. 
See related article on Page E2.

Dr. Elizabeth Baker said that the
study did not address why smoking
rates among white teen-agers have
increased slightly in recent years. She
said that further research is needed to
understand this trend.