EDITORIAL PAGE

Clinton’s Smokescreen

Consider the status of America's young.

☐ One in 10 teenage girls will get pregnant this year. Half of those pregnancies will end in abortions; the other half will result in babies born to mostly unwed adolescent mothers.

☐ Juveniles commit the largest portion of violent crime, including one third of all murders. In the past decade, the number of 13- to 15-year-olds arrested for murder doubled.

☐ Use of illegal drugs such as marijuana, LSD, inhalants and stimulants is on the rise among young people. One third will have used marijuana by the time they are high school seniors; more than 90 percent will have tried alcohol.

☐ America’s adolescents are alarmingly uneducated. Ninety-four percent of high school seniors are unable to use basic algebra; 85 percent don't know when the Civil War was fought; roughly half attribute Karl Marx’s teachings to the U.S. Constitution.

☐ Only 57 percent of this nation’s children live with both their biological parents and adolescents reared in single-parent families are more likely to become criminals, to be hospitalized, to be admitted to psychiatric hospitals, to use drugs, and to commit suicide.

America's teen-agers clearly face enormous social pathologies. So to which of these grievous ills has Bill Clinton decided to devote his considerable influence and power as leader of the free world? The President has announced that he will pursue “tough and mandatory” regulations to curb on…teen-age smoking.

Certainly, cigarette smoking is an unhealthy habit. Teen-agers should be – and are – advised against adopting the practice. Selling cigarettes to minors is illegal in almost every state; no one has proposed changing that. But Clinton’s proposal that the Food and Drug Administration regulate cigarettes as “drug delivery systems” because they contain nicotine is an example of overreaching government at its worst.

Yet it is curious. The President and his allies consider themselves the anointed few, charged with managing us lesser creatures. If Clinton trusted the public's judgment, he would not seek to impose his will on a potentially radical expansion of executive power.

The public is fully right to discourage all Americans from taking up or continuing the habit if so. But unless it obtains at two proverbs an activity 50 million pure American enjoy doing.