THE WALL STREET JOURNAL: THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1994

2046582645

LAW

Trial Lawyers Reach Out to Republicans

By Mark Landler
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal

WASHINGTON — The nation’s largest trial
lawyers organization is launching a campaign
to cultivate closer ties with Republican
officials, in an effort to soften the group’s
image and influence policy decisions.

The Association of Trial Lawyers of America
(ATLA), which represents more than 100,000
attorneys, has long been viewed as a major
Democratic donor and political force. But
with Republicans controlling Congress and
the White House, ATLA leaders say they need
to broaden their reach to ensure their views
are heard.

LEGAL BEAT

The effort includes hiring a Republican
lobbyist, former Rep. Tom Loeffler of Texas,
and hosting receptions for GOP lawmakers.
ATLA also is planning a series of meetings
with congressional staff members to discuss
the group’s policy priorities.

“We need to be able to talk to Republicans,”
said ATLA President William L. Pruitt, a
plaintiff’s attorney from St. Louis. “It’s
important for us to have a dialogue with
both parties.”

The move signals a shift in strategy for
ATLA, which has historically focused its
political efforts on Democrats. The group
contributed $2.6 million to Democratic
candidates and committees during the 1994
election cycle, compared with just $38,000
for Republicans.

The Republican Party has frequently criticized
trial lawyers for what it calls frivolous
lawsuits and excessive damage awards. ATLA
leaders say they want to dispel those
misconceptions and demonstrate that their
members are committed to seeking justice for
injured people.

“We’re not just about big verdicts,” said
ATLA General Counsel Susan E. Kay. “We’re
about holding wrongdoers accountable.”

The ATLA’s outreach to Republicans comes as
the group faces a number of legislative
challenges. Congress is considering bills
that would overhaul the civil justice system,
including measures that would limit damage
awards and restrict attorneys' fees.

ATLA officials say they want to work with
Republicans to craft reforms that address
legitimate concerns about frivolous lawsuits
while protecting the rights of injured
people to seek redress in court.

“We’re not opposed to reform,” said Mr.
Pruitt. “But we want to make sure any changes
don’t unfairly restrict access to justice.”

The hiring of Mr. Loeffler, a former chairman
of the House Rules Committee, is seen as a
key part of ATLA’s strategy. He brings with
him extensive knowledge of congressional
procedures and relationships with GOP
leaders.

“Tom understands how Congress works,” said
Ms. Kay. “He can help us navigate the
political landscape.”

ATLA also plans to emphasize its support for
charitable causes and community service
projects in its outreach efforts. The group
has donated millions of dollars to charities
and encourages its members to volunteer their
time and expertise.

“We want people to see that we’re more than
just lawyers,” said Mr. Pruitt. “We’re
members of the community who care about
making a difference.”

Some Republicans have expressed skepticism
about ATLA’s motives, suggesting that the
group is simply trying to protect its own
financial interests. But others say they are
open to dialogue with trial lawyers and
willing to consider their views on legislative
proposals.

“I think it’s a positive development if
trial lawyers are willing to engage in a
constructive conversation about civil justice
reform,” said Rep. Bill McCollum (R-Fla.),
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee’s
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs,
Intellectual Property and Tort Reform.

ATLA’s efforts to reach out to Republicans
are likely to be closely watched by other
interest groups who are seeking to influence
policy decisions in a Republican-controlled
Congress. The group’s success or failure
could provide valuable insights into the
challenges of navigating the new political
landscape.

Mr. Pruitt said ATLA is also planning to
increase its advertising and public relations
efforts to counter what he calls “negative
stereotypes” about trial lawyers. The group
is considering running television commercials
that highlight stories of people who have been
injured by corporate negligence and have
been able to obtain compensation through the
legal system.

“We want to show people that we’re on the
side of justice,” said Mr. Pruitt. “We’re
here to protect the rights of ordinary
citizens.”

Ms. Kay added that ATLA is also working to
improve its image among journalists and other
opinion leaders. The group has hired a public
relations firm to help it craft messages
that will resonate with a broader audience.

“We want people to understand that we’re not
just about big verdicts,” she said. “We’re
about ensuring that everyone has access to
justice.”