'93E INIAN 18815: PHILLIP MORRIS K.K.

WORLD/ENVIRONMENT

20 THE TIMES, TUESDAY JANUARY 1993

EPA to release second cigarette smoke paper

By David A. Cornwell

WASHINGTON - The Environmental Protection Agency will today release a report linking secondhand smoke to an increased risk of lung cancer and heart disease in non-smokers, officials said.

The report, the second on secondhand smoke from EPA’s “Air Toxics” program, is expected to intensify the debate over smoking restrictions in public places. The first report, released in 1986, concluded that secondhand smoke increases the risk of lung cancer and heart disease.

“This report confirms what many people already believe: secondhand smoke is a serious health hazard,” said EPA Administrator William Riley. “We must take action to protect our children and other vulnerable populations from exposure to this dangerous pollutant.”

The new report focuses on studies conducted since 1986, which have strengthened the link between secondhand smoke and lung cancer. It also examines the effects of secondhand smoke on children, who are particularly susceptible to its harmful effects because their bodies are still developing.

“Secondhand smoke increases the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), respiratory infections, ear infections and asthma in children,” said Dr. Richard Kusner, assistant administrator for air and radiation at EPA. “It also increases the risk of heart disease in adults.”

The report notes that secondhand smoke contains more than 200 chemicals, including 60 known carcinogens. It says that exposure to secondhand smoke is a significant contributor to lung cancer deaths, accounting for roughly 10 times as many deaths as are directly caused by active smoking.

“We’ve always maintained that secondhand smoke is harmful,” said John Wilhelm, spokesman for the Tobacco Institute. “But we question the EPA’s methodology and its conclusions.”

The report acknowledges that more research is needed to fully understand the effects of secondhand smoke. It also notes that there are conflicting opinions among scientists about the extent to which secondhand smoke contributes to lung cancer.

“While some studies suggest a strong link between secondhand smoke and lung cancer, others have found less conclusive evidence,” said Dr. Kusner. “However, the weight of the evidence suggests that exposure to secondhand smoke increases the risk.”

The EPA is expected to use the report to justify new regulations aimed at reducing exposure to secondhand smoke. These could include restrictions on smoking in public places and requirements for businesses to install ventilation systems.

“We are committed to protecting the health of Americans,” said Riley. “And we will take whatever steps are necessary to reduce exposure to harmful pollutants like secondhand smoke.”



agency will weigh the EPA’s report, which is expected to be released this morning by Administrator William Riley, in order to determine whether to issue federal guidelines on smoking in public places.

The report says that secondhand smoke increases the risk of lung cancer and heart disease in non-smokers. It also notes that children are particularly vulnerable because their bodies are still developing.

“Secondhand smoke is a proven health hazard,” said Riley. “It increases the risk of sudden infant death syndrome, respiratory infections, ear infections and asthma in children.”

The report concludes that secondhand smoke contains more than 200 chemicals, about 60 of which are known carcinogens. It estimates that exposure to secondhand smoke causes about 53,000 lung cancer deaths in non-smokers each year.

“We’ve always maintained that secondhand smoke is harmful,” said two spokesmen.



morely, and that it increases the risk of sudden infant death syndrome, bronchitis, pneumonia, ear infections, and asthma in children. This report also examines childhood respiratory illnesses.

The EPA has concluded that secondhand smoke increases the risk of lung cancer in non-smokers and that there is no safe level of exposure to it. “It’s important to do so at this time,” Riley said.

The lung cancer report says that secondhand smoke increases the risk of sudden infant death syndrome, bronchitis, pneumonia, ear infections, and asthma in children. The EPA has concluded that secondhand smoke increases the risk of lung cancer in non-smokers and that there is no safe level of exposure to it. “It’s important to do so at this time,” Riley said.

The focus of the report is on studies conducted since 1986. The EPA says its report was conceived to be a comprehensive review of available scientific data.

The link between cigarette smoke and heart disease considered even more clear than the link between cigarette smoke and lung cancer.

The EPA has submitted hundreds of pages of documents over the years detailing past efforts in an effort to relay its message.



4/4 264039357