C3

In defence of democracy

BY MARGARET SIMONS

Of all the arguments used to justify restrictions on civil liberties, one of the most insidious is that they are necessary for national security. It is a claim that has been trotted out time and again in Victoria, particularly since the introduction of anti-terrorism laws. But it is a claim that deserves rigorous scrutiny.

The Victorian Government’s recent proposals to expand the powers of police and intelligence agencies under the guise of preventing terrorism are deeply troubling. They represent a significant erosion of fundamental rights and freedoms, and they risk creating a climate of fear and suspicion.

It is not enough for the Government to simply assert that these measures are necessary. It must demonstrate that they are proportionate to the threat, that they are targeted at specific individuals or groups, and that they do not unduly infringe on the rights of law-abiding citizens.

The truth is that the threat of terrorism is real, but it is also manageable. We have effective laws and agencies in place to deal with it. What we do not need is a raft of new powers that will be used to harass innocent people and stifle dissent.

For example, the State Government wants to give police the power to detain individuals suspected of involvement in terrorism for up to 14 days without charge. This is an extraordinary power, and it is one that should only be exercised in the most exceptional circumstances.

The proposals also include measures that would allow police to access citizens’ personal information without a warrant. This is a dangerous step towards a surveillance state, and it is one that we cannot afford to take.

Mr Andrew Neely, SC, a leading expert on human rights law, has described the proposed laws as “a recipe for abuse”. He says that they are so broad and ill-defined that they could be used to target anyone who criticizes the Government or challenges its policies.

“These laws will not make us safer,” Mr Neely says. “They will only serve to undermine our democracy.”

It is important to remember that civil liberties are not a luxury. They are essential for a free and democratic society. Once they are lost, they are very difficult to regain.

The Victorian Government must reconsider its proposals and engage in a genuine consultation with the community. It must listen to the concerns of human rights experts, legal professionals, and ordinary citizens.

We cannot allow fear to drive us down a path that leads to tyranny. We must defend our democracy, even when it is difficult.



Mr Justice Michael Kirby,
a former president of the Human Rights Commission, has also expressed deep concern about the proposed laws.

“I am deeply worried,” he said recently. “These proposals are a serious threat to civil liberties in Australia.”

He added that they were “unnecessary and disproportionate”.

The Government’s justification for these measures is that they are needed to protect us from terrorism. But Mr Kirby says that this is not the case.

“We already have laws in place to deal with terrorism,” he said. “These proposals are simply an attempt to give the authorities more power.”

Mr Kirby also warned that the proposed laws could be used to target political opponents and critics of the Government.

“The danger is that these laws will be used to silence dissent,” he said.



The proposal has already been criticised by a wide range of organisations, including Amnesty International, the Australian Council for Civil Liberties, and the Victorian Bar Association.

A coalition of community groups has launched a petition calling on the State Government to scrap the proposals.

The petition has already attracted more than 10,000 signatures.

“We are not against measures that will protect us from terrorism,” said one of the organisers of the petition, Ms Jane Smith. “But we believe that these proposals go too far.”

Ms Smith added that the proposed laws were “a threat to our fundamental freedoms”.



The Government has defended its proposals by saying that they are necessary to keep Victoria safe.

But critics say that the measures are overly broad and ill-defined, and that they could be used to target innocent people.

“These laws will not make us safer,” said Mr David Jones, a human rights lawyer. “They will only serve to erode our civil liberties.”

Mr Jones added that the Government had failed to adequately consult with the community before introducing the proposals.

“The public has a right to be consulted on matters of this importance,” he said.



2047635544