Two-thirds of the 50 million U.S. smokers say they want to stop but can’t.

Last Page / Executive News S(.)

UPf 03/31 1817 Waxman releases withheld tobacco study

BY PAUL BASKEN

WASHINGTON, March 31 (UPI) — The chairman of a House health subcommittee Thursday released copies of an internal study by Philip Morris that he said showed the tobacco company, despite continued denial’s, confirmed more than 10 years ago that nicotine is addictive.

Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., said the 1983 study indicates Philip Morris had scientifically confirmed nicotine's addictive quality five years before the government made its own scientific determination and that the company “apparently went to extraordinary lengths” to keep its findings secret.

Waxman, a leading force in Congress for regulation of the tobacco industry, said he would demand by power of subpoena if necessary that tobacco company executives appear at a hearing in April to answer the charges.

Waxman, who heads the Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on health and the environment, said his findings could fuel efforts to force tobacco companies to remove nicotine from cigarettes or label them as addictive.

A Philip Morris spokesman declined to answer questions on the matter and instead issued a one-page statement that denied the report cited by Waxman had concluded nicotine was addictive.

Thomas Laurita, a spokesman for the industry’s lobbyist, the Tobacco Institute, also denied nicotine is “addictive.” He said nicotine instead is "an alkaloid in the same category as caffeine."

Waxman said the study was conducted by Philip Morris researcher Victor DeNoble, who connected rats to intravenous tubes that allowed them access to nicotine when they pushed certain levers.

"All the rats initiated and maintained nicotine self-administration” when given choices of various levers and nicotine supplies, the report concluded.

Waxman said he sought the report after the head of the Food and Drug Administration, David A. Kessler, referred during a subcommittee hearing last week to industry-"suppressed" studies in animals that show that in fact nicotine is addictive."

Waxman said he learned that DeNoble first submitted his study with the scientific journal "Psychopharmacology” in 1983, then withdrew it with the explanation that he was forced by “factors beyond my control.”

DeNoble, after leaving Philip Morris, submitted a revised version of his report to the journal in 1985, but withdrew it again after the company either threatened or initiated legal action, Waxman said.

Waxman said the federal government only confirmed the substance of the study in 1988, when Surgeon General C. Everett Koop issued a report that concluded nicotine is addictive.

The Philip Morris study, which was used as the substantiation for the company’s advertising in 1983 and afterwards, shows the extent to which tobacco companies go to conceal information from the public, Waxman said.

“It is clear,” Waxman added, “that Philip Morris knew nicotine was addictive long before they admitted it publicly.”

The study was first reported by the New York Daily News on March 20.

(Copyright 1985, United Press International)