Rubin Barney & Birger March 13, 1996

THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

In Courtrooms, the Debate May Never Be the Same

By Milo Cleveland
And Harriet Winslow
Staff Reporters of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Liggett Group’s tentative settlement of a class-action suit against the tobacco industry could alter the dynamics of tobacco litigation forever.

Plaintiffs would receive only a meager sum—$350 million—but experts predict the settlement will set a precedent, limiting liability and potential judgments against other tobacco companies should pay damages.

The lawsuit was one of several brought on behalf of smokers or their survivors. It alleges that cigarette manufacturers fraudulently concealed the health risks associated with smoking. The plaintiffs are seeking $1 billion in damages.

Liggett’s offer to settle is unusual because it involves a direct admission of wrongdoing, something other tobacco companies have avoided. Liggett has acknowledged that cigarettes are addictive and that its marketing practices contributed to smokers’ addiction.

“We’re perhaps going to see more of this,” said Ross M. Herman, Herman, Herman & Childress, a Dallas law firm. “If they get them, we recognize it as terms.”

The settlement is not without its detractors. Some plaintiffs’ lawyers believe Liggett has offered too little and that the settlement would give other tobacco companies an excuse to avoid trial.

“This is a cynical ploy,” said John R. Scheffey, of Specter, Gershbaum, Howe & Flaherty in Philadelphia, who represents several other groups of smokers suing cigarette manufacturers. “They’re trying to buy their way out of liability.”

The settlement also raises questions about the future of tobacco litigation. The industry is facing hundreds of lawsuits brought on behalf of every smoker—or those who died from smoking-related illnesses.

A key question is whether a federal appeals court in New Orleans will approve Liggett’s settlement. The court has been overseeing the consolidation of several of these cases into a class action. The Liggett settlement, if approved, would limit the potential damages that other tobacco companies could face.

“It argues by showing that the issues are not as serious as plaintiffs allege,” said Thomas V. Richardson, of Richards Bartlett & Heather in Washington, D.C., who represents several tobacco companies. “It’s a way to minimize exposure.”

The settlement also raises questions about whether other tobacco companies will follow Liggett’s lead and offer similar settlements. Some experts believe that the other major manufacturers—Philip Morris Cos., American Brands Inc. and Lorillard Inc.—will resist such offers.

“I don’t think they want to set a precedent,” said Stanley M. Grossman, of Grant & Flanigan in New York City, who represents several smokers suing tobacco companies. “They believe they can win these cases.”

The settlement would enable Mr. LaBow to shut down most of the tobacco lawsuits. At current profit levels, Liggett could pay $350 million a year for 25 years under the settlement.

“It seems like a sweetheart deal” for Liggett, said Larry S. Gordon, an Oak-land, Calif., lawyer who is involved in several other tobacco cases.

Some other tobacco litigation also critics say that the settlement would enable Mr. LaBow to avoid scrutiny of his company’s marketing practices. They allege that Liggett has targeted young people and minority groups with its advertising.

Mr. LaBow has defended Liggett’s marketing practices, saying that the company has always complied with all applicable laws and regulations.

The settlement also includes a provision that would prevent plaintiffs from using the documents disclosed during discovery in the class action to file new lawsuits. This provision is particularly important to tobacco companies, which fear that plaintiffs will use these documents to build stronger cases against them.

“It’s an attempt to shut down future litigation,” said Mr. Scheffey.

The settlement would also require Liggett to establish a $35 million fund to support research into the causes and prevention of smoking-related illnesses.

The tentative agreement between Liggett and the plaintiffs is subject to approval by the federal appeals court in New Orleans. The court will hold a hearing on the settlement next month.

—David Hollinger contributed to this article.

1107-Y-080305