Issues

DoD anti-smoking policy deemed successful

By Carolyn Sims
Stars and Stripes Staff Writer
ABOARD THE USS KEARSARGE — The Defense Department’s ban on smoking in military workplaces is working, according to a new report.

The report, released last week by the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center, shows that smoking rates among active-duty personnel have dropped significantly since the policy was implemented in 2001.

In 2001, about 43 percent of active-duty military members smoked. By 2007, that number had fallen to 28 percent.

The decline is due in part to a concerted effort by the DOD to educate service members about the dangers of smoking and to provide them with resources to quit.

“We’ve seen a real commitment from leadership at all levels to support this policy,” said Dr. James D'Angelo, director of health promotion and wellness for the DOD. “And we’ve seen a corresponding decrease in smoking rates.”

The policy prohibits smoking in all DOD workplaces, including ships, aircraft, vehicles and buildings. It also restricts smoking near military installations and requires smokers to obtain permission from their commanders before smoking on base.

The policy has not been without its critics. Some service members have complained that it is overly restrictive and infringes on their personal freedoms.

“It’s just another way the government is trying to control our lives,” said Petty Officer 2nd Class Mark Williams, a Marine stationed aboard the USS Kearsarge. “I understand the health concerns, but I think they’re going too far.”

Despite the criticism, most experts agree that the policy has been successful in reducing smoking rates among military personnel.

“This is a significant achievement,” said Dr. Michael Thun, vice president of epidemiological research for the American Cancer Society. “It shows that when you implement comprehensive policies and provide support to people who want to quit, you can make a real difference.”

The report also notes that the DOD has invested heavily in anti-smoking programs and public awareness campaigns.

“We’re committed to continuing these efforts,” said D'Angelo. “We know that smoking is still a major health risk for our service members, and we want to do everything we can to help them quit.”

The report recommends continuing the current policy and expanding it to include more comprehensive tobacco prevention measures. It also suggests increasing taxes on tobacco products to further reduce smoking rates by 10 percent per year until they are all gone.

2047564039

Jon M. Wilson
Navy Weapons Specialist, 2nd Class
These “successes” appear in a world where more than 48 million Americans face fatal diseases made worse by tobacco use. The DOD’s policy is just one part of a broader effort to reduce smoking rates and improve the health of all Americans.

(Story Continues on Page 16)
A writer with the American Forces Information Service