Am. Farm Bureau Holds

77th Annual Convention

BOYDTON - The 71th annual presidents in attendance at a lun-
Convention of the American Farm cheon on Monday.
Bureau Federation was held at the Speed skater Bonnie Blair ad-
Convention Center in Reno, dressed the group on Tuesday. In
Nevada, the week of January 7-11, her speech, she stressed “Set goals
1985. and be dedicated, have a balance in
The activities began on Sunday your life, but don’t be afraid to take
when the Women's & Young risks. These things apply to farmer
Farmer’s Programs were held. life no matter if you are a farmer,
Women attendees volunteered through a teacher or any other profession.”
volunteer fund raising, the women There were conferences and
had raised thirty thousand dollars workshops on many topics during
to support rural health programs and the week. Some of these topics in-
operational a fruit and vegetable cluded Farm Management, Family
campaign family in the Western Farming, Property Taxes, Row
States. The campaign was started Crop, Dairy, Beef Cattle,
during the meeting of the Citizens Government Regulations, and other
of America for Foreign Affairs. subjects.
The campaign was launched on Oc- Delegates attended sessions con-
tober 1984 and after ten months tinuing from each area discussed and
it had raised over one hundred established Farm Bureau policy on
thousand dollars. The C.N.A. F. A.F.B. is a grassroots organization,
America’s Volunteer Program a diverse list of issues.
through which women in farm  A.F.B. has offices in fifty
families helped the campaign states and territories, and in more
was started last year. This year the than 2,400 counties and parishes,
project raised over sixty thousand but is not connected with any par-
dollars. ticular political party.
Jack King, His question was ticular political party.
“How Big Government and what  The A.F.B. has a membership of
cost?” His philosophy is out the more than 2.3 million member
government should reduce taxes, families.
and spend within it means like Jack King, president of the Na-
like all businesses and home owners tional Futures Farmers of America,
should be able to understand budgeting. was one of the many dignitaries in
He stated that “the National Budget attendance at the convention.
Debate, but Farm Bureau is calling  The A.F.B. has a membership of
for responsible spending on more than 2.3 million member
agricultural research and market families.
development programs.” These pro- Jack King, president of the Na-
grams are important to future tional Futures Farmers of America,
Dollars spent in these areas are was one of the many dignitaries in
returned many times over. attendance at the convention.

Last year the United States sold Approximately $53 billion of agricultural products overseas and it is expected that this year’s sales will reach $60 billion. Farm Bureau will continue to work to expand those markets. The ex-port area will through the world to see it continues to grow and pro-vide employment opportunities for American farmers.

Farm Bureau continued to expoyed its rights position on foreign trade.
The resolution called for the re-moval of all barriers to free trade.

Among the many dignitaries in attendance were state governors, con-gressmen, senators, and county