Press Cutting

Intermarkets Public Relations
The Arabian Monitor - monthly e edition for the Middle East.
Publication Arabnews Daily
Country Saudi Arabia
Circulation 20.000
Date 24th June 1993

MIDDLE EAST

Battle of the
smoke: tobacco
giants hit back

GREENSBORO, North Carolina (AP) - The tobacco industry attacked a draft Environmental Protection Agency re-
port that says secondhand smoke is a major risk factor for lung cancer.
The industry said in a lawsuit that the EPA’s report, which could lead to stricter
anti-smoking regulations, should fit “science” and not be based on speculation.
The EPA defended its work, while an agency spokesman accused the tobacco
industry of trying to stall the release
of the report.

The report predicted in January said
cigarette smoke was responsible for 30,000 cases
of cancer, responsible for 30,000 cases
of lung cancer per non-smokers. It
also said second-hand smoke was re-
sponsible for 15,000 deaths from
bronchitis and pneumonia each year in
Exposure to smoke also increases the
risk of asthma in children with
asthma and increases the risk of new
cases of asthma, the EPA found.
The lawsuit filed in US district court
alleged the EPA used flawed scientific
procedures to support its finding and asks
a judge to order the agency to withdraw
the report.

“We don’t think the EPA could not otherwise
reach its predetermined conclusions un-
less it relied on questionable and biased
statistical practice,” said the EPA simply
engaged in “political” action, one
an attorney for Philip Morris USA, one
of the plaintiffs.

“If the marketing agencies decided that
smoking needs to be less prevalent in
this country, that’s fine. But that’s
where the agency ought to be discussing
it and not issuing a report,” said
EPA and submitted a final draft of
the report and submitted a final draft it
to the White House. The EPA is re-
sponding to the lawsuit in response to
industry criticism.

“EPA’s ‘environmental’ tobacco
report is an attempt to scare people and
make out that there is a high risk
involved,” said a spokesman for Brown &
William Tobacco Co. “We have had
law firms in this area, who have
been paid by the EPA to file lawsuits.”

The report says secondhand smoke causes
approximately 30,000 deaths each year
in the United States. The EPA is ex-
pected to release the final version of
the report next month.



20480075