NEWSDAY, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9, 1995

BUSINESS

Marlboro Lights’ New Label:
‘Underage Sale Prohibited’

Warning added as Clinton
hints at tobacco crackdown

By Harry Berkowitz
STAFF WRITER.

The politically hot issue of cigarette smoking by youngsters took center stage yesterday not only in the political corridors of Washington, D.C., but at a Philip Morris plant in Richmond, Va.
In Washington, the White House indicated that within days, President Bill Clinton may announce new measures to restrict advertising and sale of cigarettes to youngsters.
Also, National Public Radio aired a Monday interview in which Clinton said the nation needs a “tough and mandatory” program to reduce smoking by teens.
Meanwhile, Philip Morris, the nation’s biggest cigarette maker, gathered reporters and photographers at its Richmond plant as it started to stamp "Underage Sale Prohibited" on one side of Marlboro Light packs.

The message, which will be on all of its brands by year's end, is part of a broader package of voluntary measures and suggested legislation that the company announced in June to make it harder for youngsters to gain access to cigarettes. The company — focusing on access rather than advertising — also has stopped giving out samples or free cigarettes at events and is increasing great-er supervision of cigarette vending machines.
"We’ve had policies in place that have been effectively enforced in the past and are public relations plays meant to avoid harsher restrictions," said Scott Ballinger, senior of the Coalition on Smoking Deaths.
“It's far too little and it’s far too late,” he added.

In Washington, the Clinton administration’s proposals, the industry will give an inch to avoid a landslide.”
The move is seen as a companion to anti-smoking program initiatives pain in advertising and promotion of cigarettes with such images as the Marlboro cow, boy, hip Joe and Happy Newport couples.

The “Underage Sale Prohibited” label on
upper side of a Marlboro Lights pack.

PLEASE SEE SMOKING ON PAGE A12.



RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH | STAFF T. WAGNER