PAGE

2

1ST STORY of Level 1 printed in FULL format.

Copyright 1994 Newsday, Inc.
Newsday

October 9, 1994, Sunday, NASSAU EDITION

SECTION: CURRENTS; LONG ISLAND TOPIC; Pg. A59

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Health
Should the State Sue Tobacco Companies?

BYLINE: BLAIR HORNER and CHRIS MEYER. Blair Horner, left is legislative director
and Chris Meyer, right, is a staff attorney of the New York Public Interest
Research Group (NYPIRG). Horner is chairman of the steering committee of the
State Commission for a Healthy New York.

BODY:

ONE IN EVERY five deaths in New York State is due to smoking-related illnesses.
The grim toll from smoking - more than 30,000 New Yorkers, including almost
6,100 from Long Island, dying every year - is more than twice the total number
of people who die from AIDS, car crashes, breast cancer, suicide and murder
combined. In addition, one fourth of all fire deaths result from cigarettes.

Tobacco addiction, long regarded as a health menace, has also become a
significant economic burden. The annual medical cost to treat tobacco-related
diseases in New York is $4.6 billion, according to the State Health Department.

Cigarette disease hits the wallet of every New York taxpayer. New Yorkers get
socked with a hidden tax that pays for treating Medicaid patients who suffer
from diseases caused by smoking. New York taxpayers foot the bill of at least $
650 million in Medicaid costs stemming from smoking every year. The state can go
to court to try to recover those costs, but to do so is exceedingly expensive
and likely to fail.

New York could learn from the State of Florida, which has developed a novel
approach to getting the tobacco industry to pick up its portion of the Medicaid
tab. A new Florida law allows its attorney general to sue tobacco companies to
recover tax money the state spends to treat Medicaid patients who get sick from
smoking. Before this change, if Florida wanted tobacco companies ot pay
individual costs, it would not only have to prove in court that each
industry member was directly involved in smoking, it would also have to prove
which individual was responsible. That’s almost impossible since smokers change
brands. Under the new law, all Florida has to show is that state campaigns
based on their share of the Florida cigarette market.

The tobacco industry spent $2.9 billion on advertising in 1993.

(For additional coverage, see stories on pages A29, A30 and B1.)

[Box]
TOBACCO-RELATED DEATHS IN NEW YORK STATE BY CAUSE:

CAUSE OF DEATH                  NUMBER OF DEATHS

Cancer                          15,600
Cardiovascular Disease          7,400
Chronic Bronchitis/Emphysema   3,800
Accidental Fires                900
Other                           2,300

TOTAL                         30,000



2095763096