Medical advisers
'censor research' to please government'

By Ron Mitchell,
health reporter

AUSTRALIA’S principal medical advisory body, the National Medical Advisory Council, is reportedly filtering reports to please the Federal Government, according to the country’s most senior health bureaucrat, Dr Stephen Duckett.

Dr Duckett said that the council was needed to act as a “buffer” between scientists who should be allowed to do so.

“The National Medical Advisory Council,” he told The Australian Journal of Medicine, “is supposed to be an independent body. Australian Medicine"

He made the comments in response to a question about the Federal Health Department’s independence.

When asked by a journalist whether member was being censored, Dr Duckett said: "It is not censorship. It's a quality control process.”

Dr Duckett expressed his concern.

A council staff writer told Australian Medicine that reports were “edited” to remove potentially controversial material before they were presented to the Minister for Health, Ms Neal Blewett.

“They’re looking for anything that might be embarrassing,” the staff writer said.

The chairman of the National Medical Advisory Council, Dr John McNeill, denied that reports were censored.

“We do not censor reports,” he said. “We ensure they are accurate and relevant.”

Dr Duckett said that the council was needed to act as a "buffer" between scientists who should be allowed to do so.

“If we want an independent set of advisers, we should let them give independent advice and let the government decide what it does with that advice,” he said.

Disputed from the December issue of the AMA Journal.

“They did not set the context. My concern is that areas with a particular political sensitivity are being looked at,” Dr Duckett said.

He said he didn’t want that to happen, that “being politically or sensitive” was a problem.

Dr Duckett said he could not remember the name of the reporter who wrote the story, which appeared about two years ago when the council was chaired by Ms Diana Horvath.

The editor of Australian Medicine, Mr Bill Northam, said Dr Duckett’s response to the question had been “very helpful”.

“It confirmed what we suspected,” he said. “That there is a process in place that prevents certain information from getting to the Minister.”

Ms Blewett could not be contacted for comment. Her spokesman, Mr Warwick Giles, said: "The Minister has full confidence in the National Medical Advisory Council."

Dr Ian Sutherland, president of the Australian Medical Association, said he was “deeply concerned” by Dr Duckett’s comments.

“If that is absolutely true, then it is a very serious matter,” he said. “It suggests that his department has been interfering with scientific advice.”

Mr Giles said that the AMA had not received any complaints about the National Medical Advisory Council.

Dr Laurence Sholl, of the Public Health Association of Australia, said if Dr Duckett’s comments were true, then it was a sign that the government was trying to control the flow of information.

“It is absolutely essential that scientists are allowed to do their work without interference,” he said. “Otherwise, we risk losing public trust in science.”