Smokers,
with recall
Stores deal

RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2000 4C



BY CHARLES STAFF WRITER
It’s often easy to be cynical about
the country’s largest tobacco companies.
But sometimes they do something that
makes you wonder if there's a little bit
of humanity left.

Like this week’s announcement by Philip
Morris Cos. Inc., recalling 15.8 million
packs of Marlboro cigarettes from around
the country because of a defect in the
filters. The cost: about $10 million.

“We are taking this action to ensure
that our customers receive products that
meet our high standards,” said Philip Mor-
ris spokeswoman Carolyn Ellis.

The filters, made at a New Castle, Va.,
plant, contained a “small piece of un-
wanted material” that could cause an im-
proper draw on the cigarette.

Philip Morris has already notified all of its
retailers and is asking them to pull the de-
fective packs from store shelves. The re-
call affects Marlboro Gold Pack, Marlboro
Lights Gold Pack, Marlboro Ultra Lights
Gold Pack, Marlboro Gold Pack 100s, Mar-
lboro Lights Gold Pack 100s and Marlboro
Ultra Lights Gold Pack 100s.

The company said the problem was dis-
covered during a routine quality control
check at the New Castle plant.

“We’re very concerned about our custom-
ers,” Ellis said. “We want to make sure
they have a good experience with our prod-
uct.”

Philip Morris is offering retailers a $100
credit for each pack returned. Customers
who purchased recalled packs are being of-
fered a coupon for a free pack of cigarettes.



PAGE 6 SEE RECALL A25

“It’s not something we do often,” said
Ellis. “We have recall procedures in place,
but they rarely get used.”

The Marlboro filters were manufactured be-
tween April 1998 and June 1999.

Philip Morris is also offering a toll-free
number for customers with questions: (800)
653-4842.



“We’ve had some retailers mention that
they haven’t received official notification
yet,” Ellis said. “But we are working to get
the word out.”

The recall is the latest in a series of prob-
lems for the tobacco industry, which has been
under intense scrutiny since the release of
internal documents revealing that companies
knew about the dangers of smoking for de-
cades but continued to market cigarettes ag-
gressively.



“I think it’s a positive step,” said Richard
Woollen, president of the Virginia Retailers
Association. “It shows they are willing to ac-
knowledge there can be problems and take
steps to correct them.”

Philip Morris is headquartered in Richmond.
The company has about 120,000 employees
worldwide.



“I’ve never heard of a recall like this be-
fore,” said Martha Mullinax, owner of Mul-
linax Market on Arthur Street in Richmond.
“It’s just something you don’t expect all
day for a product. I’m a woman who
likes to smoke.”

Mullinax said she had already removed the
affected packs from her shelves. “I got a
notice yesterday,” she said. “They told us
to pull them and give customers a coupon.”

She added that most of her customers are
regular Marlboro smokers. “They’ll be dis-
appointed, I’m sure,” Mullinax said. “But
they understand these things happen.”



Woollen said Philip Morris has been work-
ing closely with retailers to ensure the re-
call goes smoothly. “They want to make
sure that stores are aware of what they need
to do and that customers aren’t inconven-
ienced,” he said.

Philip Morris Cos. Inc. is one of the world’s
largest cigarette companies. Its brands in-
clude Marlboro, Virginia Slims and Ken-
tang. The company has been criticized for its
marketing practices, particularly toward ju-
veniles.



“They’re doing it right,” said Woollen. “The
company is taking responsibility for a de-
fective product.”

Mullinax said she hasn’t received any com-
plaints from customers yet. “I think most
people will just take it in stride,” she said.
“It’s not the end of the world.”



Woollen said that he doesn't know how long
the recall will last. "They'll keep it going un-
til they've pulled all the packs from store
shelves," he said.




Philip Morris Cos. Inc. is a subsidiary of Al-
lied Domecq, based in Paris.



“I’m not sure what to think,” said one cus-
tomer who identified himself only as “Tom.”
“It’s good that they’re doing something, but
it also makes you wonder why it happened
in the first place.”