THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 1994   B1

MARKETPLACE

ADVERTISING

Philip Morris
Plans an Attack
On EPA Report

BY BEN SHAPIRO
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal

The new management team at Philip
Morris Co. is going on the attack.

Wall Street analysts in New York told
yesterday that Philip Morris plans a
barrage of newspaper advertisements crit-
ical of the Environmental Protection
Agency’s report on secondhand smoke.
Parts of the advertisements repro-
duce statements from Forbes magazine
coverage of the possible hazards posed by
secondhand smoke, which will appear
series over the days next week in major
newspapers, including The New York
Times, The Washington Post and The Wall
Street Journal. The advertisements end
with the statement: “Facts matter.”

The nation’s largest tobacco company
has several reasons for its attack.
Competitors have privately criticized
Philip Morris’s strategy, saying that it's
a desperate move by management, led by
Chief Executive William S. Newbern and
Chairman Richard J. Goetz. Geoffrey
C. Bible, executive vice chairman, is
also eager to counter Philip Morris’s
image as a company that ignores the
health concerns of smokers.

The EPA report, released last week,
concludes that secondhand smoke is a
human carcinogen and recommends that
hundreds of municipalities and corpo-
rations have implemented harsh restric-
tions on smoking. The Environmental
Protection Agency says they’re claiming
that secondhand smoke was responsible
for about 30,000 lung cancer deaths a year.
The industry has filed suit against the
EPA, challenging the agency's data and
drawing on the name of "faulty"
science.

PM now has expanded its campaign
beyond secondhand smoke and recently
ran an advertisement touting “Today
It’s Cigarettes. Tomorrow?” suggesting
that coffee, alcohol and hamburgers
burgers next.

Philip Morris executives said addi-
tional advertising beyond next week's
series of ads is likely but declined to dis-
cuss the details. The company has been
aggressive in its response to attacks on
the industry. Philip Morris pre-
viously ran a series of ads attacking
inside the company, the more aggres-
sive posture is seen as coming from Mr.
Bible, who is known for his swift attacks, is
known for responding swiftly to attacks, is
a key player in the political war with cig-
aretive rivals.

At the same time along With Wall Street
analysts, Mr. Bible also projected higher-
than-expected profits for Philip Morris’s
cigarette business. The company's earn-
ings for the year would close $5.36 a
share, compared with $4.92 a share
last year when the company earned 18.2
billion. Mr. Bible said that cigarette vol-
umes are expected to remain flat this
year and next, but he expressed confi-
dence in the company’s ability to main-
tain its market share.

“We’re not going to be intimidated by
the EPA or any other group,” Mr. Bible
said. “We have a responsibility to our
shareholders.”