Worth quitting tobacco suit could

cost state

THE PHOENIX STAFF, October 25, 1976

That’s a sum that's an economic nightmare.
It is a sum that represents the cost more
than just dollars. It’s a cost of dignity. It’s
a cost that strikes at the base of equality be-
fore the law. It’s a cost that says to the citi-
zen, “You are expendable.”

The suit, filed by State Attorney General John
Kolbe, seeks $50 million in damages from the
major tobacco companies for costs incurred by
the state in treating illnesses allegedly caused
by smoking. The suit is based on a 1964 report
prepared by Dr. Woodrow Wirth, then state
health director.

The report concluded that cigarette smok-
ing was responsible for “a substantial portion”
of the respiratory diseases and cancers in Ari-
zona. It estimated that Arizona spent $38 mil-
lion annually to treat these illnesses.

Kolbe’s suit alleges that the tobacco com-
panies knowingly failed to warn consumers of
the dangers of smoking, and that they engaged
in deceptive advertising practices.

“We are seeking reimbursement for the costs
that have been imposed on the state because of
the actions of these companies,” Kolbe said.
“They knew what they were doing. They knew
the risks. And yet they continued to market a
product that was harmful.”

The tobacco industry has consistently de-
nied any wrongdoing. A spokesman for Philip
Morris Inc., one of the defendants in the suit,
said the company “regrets” the illnesses caused
by smoking but maintains that the scientific ev-
idence linking cigarettes to disease is incon-
clusive.

“We have always believed that people are re-
sponsible for their own health,” the spokesman
said. “And we believe that it is wrong to hold
cigarette companies liable for the actions of in-
dividuals.”

Underlying the litigation is a formula that
unusually finances Arizona’s state will in-
come tax. The population figure used in
1964 was 2,835,000. A $17.50 per capita
figure was then applied to arrive at the $49
million sought. Kolbe has since amended the
suit to reflect a 1975 population of 3.1 mil-
lion, raising the amount sought to $53.87 mil-
lion. The suit specifically mentions that
AT&T’s former chairman, Walter B. Wriston,
has criticized Kolbe's action as “un-
fair” and a “miscarriage of justice,” claimed by
follow workers, who are also victims.

“We have to recover from being
fraudulent,” said Kolbe.

John Kolbe is the state’s political contribu-
tions, not.

(Country to Woods' wording sometimes
is difficult to understand.)

Kolbe argues that the tobacco companies
have a moral and legal obligation to compensate
the state for the costs it has incurred in treat-
ing smoking-related illnesses. He says that the
companies’ deceptive practices have created a
“public health crisis” in Arizona.

“They knew what they were doing,” Kolbe said.
“They knowingly concealed information about
the dangers of smoking. And now, we are pay-
ing the price.”

A spokesman for Philip Morris Inc. said that
the company is “confident” that it will prevail
in the suit. He added that the company is pre-
pared to vigorously defend itself against Kolbe’s
allegations.

“We believe that our actions have been re-
sponsible and ethical,” the spokesman said.
“And we are confident that the courts will agree.”

The trial in the case is scheduled to begin
next spring. The outcome of the suit could have
significant implications for other states con-
templating similar litigation against the tobacco
companies.

Kolbe said he hopes the suit will serve as a
deterrent to other companies that engage in de-
ceptive practices. He added that it is impor-
tant to hold corporations accountable for their
actions.

“We are not going to allow corporations to
get away with putting profits ahead of people’s
health,” Kolbe said. “We will fight this case
aggressively.”

JOHN KOLBE
ON POLITICS

8456789



