THE WALL STREET JOURNAL WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1996 B11

Exposure to Workplace Tobacco Smoke
Is Greater Than Believed, Study Says
By TIMOTHY P. KAUFMAN
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal

WASHINGTON — Passive smoke in the workplace is far more pervasive and dangerous than U.S. workers have been led to believe, according to a new government study.

The new findings come from the Con-
tore for Disease Control, and appear in a
special section on tobacco in today’s
Health and Wellness at Risk.

Researchers found that it isn't just the
smokers who will be able to feel the
effects of secondhand smoke exposure.
Fund Trust, page Cl.

The study, commissioned by the Ameri-
can Medical Association, says confiden-
tial reports from ASL indicate that as
many as 10% of U.S. workers are exposed
to tobacco smoke and 3.5 million have suf-
fered health problems. The AMA has been
investing in tobacco research for years to
help combat the dangers it poses to public
health.

The study’s findings represent the most
extensive analysis ever compiled on sec-
ondhand smoke exposure in the workplace.
The new milestone information will allow
federal regulators to better understand the
dangers of secondhand smoke and take
steps to protect workers from its harmful
effects. The Environmental Protection Agen-
cy has declared passive smoke a carcinogen,
but it hasn’t been able to set limits on ex-
posure in workplaces because of industry
opposition. A recent report by the Con-
gressional Research Service expressed
skepticism that EPA could ever establish
rules for and against tobacco both claimed
to be harmful.

Alan Hunt, an epidemiologist who’s lead-
ing the study, says the new findings are
“much better data than the CRS report
ever had.”

But American Tobacco executive James
Fitzpatrick said in a telephone interview
that the study is “a political stunt” and that
the AMA has been trying to scare workers
into believing secondhand smoke is more
dangerous than it really is. He added that
there’s no scientific consensus on whether
secondhand smoke causes cancer or other
health problems.

The study says that as many as 539 million
pounds of tobacco are burned each year in
the U.S., and that the average smoker burns
through 12,000 cigarettes a year. The aver-
age non-smoker is exposed to about 40 cig-
arettes’ worth of smoke each day.

The study also says that smokers tend to
smoke more when they are stressed or anx-
ious, and that workplace stress can lead to
increased smoking.

The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration has proposed a regula-
tion that would require employers to pro-
tect workers from secondhand smoke by
ventilation or other means. But the agency
has been delayed in issuing the rule be-
cause of opposition year-long public com-
ments and concerns about the cost to busi-
nesses. The study’s findings will make
it easier for OSHA to defend its proposed
rule against industry challenges.

The report also says that tobacco compa-
nies have spent millions of dollars over the
years trying to downplay the dangers of
smokers and to lobby against workplace
safety regulations.

“We’ve seen a lot of evidence that com-
panies are willing to do anything to pro-
tect their profits,” says Dr. Richard Hurt,
director of the Center for Tobacco Research
and Policy at the University of Minnesota.
“They’ll lie, they’ll mislead, and they’ll
try to confuse people.”

The study also includes information on
the health effects of secondhand smoke ex-
posure, including increased risk of heart
disease, lung cancer, and respiratory ill-
nesses. It says that children are particu-
larly vulnerable to the harmful effects of
secondhand smoke.

The report concludes that workplace sec-
ondhand smoke exposure is a serious pub-
lic health problem that needs to be ad-
dressed urgently. The study’s findings
will likely put pressure on regulators and
lawmakers to take action to protect work-
ers from the dangers of secondhand smoke.



