Tobacco 'regulation'
by far not ‘prohibition’

TOBACCO INDUSTRY response to President Clinton’s proposals to cut off the marketing and sale of cigarettes and chewing tobacco to young people was predictable. “Prohibition didn’t work 70 years ago, Mr. President,” says a newspaper editorial published in Kentucky. “It won't work in 1996.”

And that is why the president did not propose prohibition. Look closely. He proposed something else.

It’s all there in black and white: The 18th amendment to the Constitution prohibited "the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors into, or the exportation thereof from the United States...” By contrast, the president announced executive action Aug. 10 to regulate the tobacco industry. Tobacco remains a legal substance. Unlike the liquor and beer industries of 70 years ago, the tobacco companies can still manufacture, sell and transport their product; import it, export it, whatever. President Clinton just wants, in his words, to “restrict sharply the advertising, promotion, distribution and marketing of cigarettes to teenagers.”

Every day, another 3,00 young people take up smoking, and 1,000 of them will eventually die of cancer, emphysema, heart disease, or some other disease connected to smoking.

And with good reason. One-third more eighth graders and one-quarter more high schoolers are smoking today than four years ago. Clinton said one in five high school seniors smokes every day. Every day, another 3,000 young people take up smoking, and 1,000 of them will eventually die of cancer, emphysema, heart disease, or some other disease connected to smoking.

These diseases cost us all eventually, because so much government funding goes to subsidize medical care when long-time smokers undergo operations for heart disease or cancer, or are put on oxygen for treatment of emphysema. Some state governments have become so outraged by those costs that they have sued the tobacco companies to recover their expenses for taking care of longtime smokers.

The federal government will try to ban cigarette vending machines and attempt to stop the tobacco companies from giving away cigarettes to teenagers and back hands packs. They plan to raise brand logo restrictions, prohibit cigarette advertising on radio and television, and require warning labels that describe the health risks of smoking.

But all this is not “prohibition.” It’s regulation. And it's a far cry from what some members of Congress are proposing: a complete ban on cigarettes.

20705.003