Port Angeles, WA
(Dr. D. 13490)
Sept. 28 1996
(Cir. S. 15,416)

21456

Tobacco billboard ads under fire

The Tacoma-Pierce County Health Department moves toward putting the health boards to “censor” such local
Department’s advertising in public places.  advertising. The move would give the health boards a say in what types of
“We can’t have billboards advertising products are allowed on outdoor displays.
cigarettes,” said Director of Public Products would be limited to those that
Relations Tom Fritz, who planned to already have specific brand names and
introduce the proposal today at the Health advertising messages.  Every time a sign is
Board meeting. “It’s just not right.” placed, it must be approved, such as schools
and parks.
Fritz said the proposed ordinance would
approve ads by the health district.
“We’ve got to protect children,” said
Health Board member Bill Hillhouse.  “We Fritz. “We’re going to have a lot of people
have to do something.”  The ordinance upset, because we’re coming out against a
would have limited the size of cigarette major industry.”
ads and restricted where they could be Health Department Director Ray Quatier
placed.  According to the proposal, said he agreed with Fritz. “We’ve got to
cigarette advertising would be prohibited do something about this,” Quatier said.
on billboards within 1,000 feet of schools, “It’s a public health issue.”
parks, playgrounds and churches.  The Health Department officials say they
ordinance also would require the Health are concerned that cigarette advertising is
Department to approve all tobacco ads contributing to underage smoking.
before they could be placed.  “We want to limit their exposure,” said
Fritz said he hoped the ordinance would Fritz. “We’re trying to protect our youth.”
gain support from health board members.

But the move sound on the health boards to "censor" such local
advertising. The move would give the health boards a say in what types of
products are allowed on outdoor displays.
Because of that, some officials worry it could stifle advertising and hurt businesses.
“I think we’ve gone too far,” said Pierce County Councilman Bill Jenkins. “We need to
let people make their own decisions about what they want to buy.”  Jenkins said he is concerned
that the ordinance would be a violation of free speech rights.
He added that it could hurt local businesses who rely on advertising to promote their products.
“It’s going to affect children, such as schools and parks,”
said Fritz.

In Pierce County, 24 percent of
adults smoke.  The proposed ordinance would apply to all billboards owned by
private companies. The health district says it is concerned about the impact of cigarette
advertising on young people. “It’s a public health issue,” said Fritz.
“We need to do something coming out against the mess.”

Ray Quatier, director of the Health Department, and Arthur Dey, Quality
Control manager for Scattle-based Advertising Media, met together Tuesday
to discuss the proposal.  "We're trying to protect our youth," said Dey. “We’ve got to have such a
proposal product,” and we will continue
advertising. State law empowers



2010068497