3-08-1996 6:05PM FROM 22 DAA 619 785 7832

NORTH COUNTY TIMES



B





P.2




Fair board weighs Marlboro sponsorship



(1)





2071211563



MARL- For the first time, the Marlboro company is under consideration for an official sponsorship of the North Carolina State Fair.



The Agriculture Commission met Tuesday to discuss a proposal from Philip Morris Companies Inc., which would provide $40,000 in funding for the fair.



As part of the agreement, Philip Morris would receive recognition and advertising opportunities at the fair. The company’s logo would be displayed on banners and promotional materials.



The department is currently reviewing proposals from several companies to sponsor various aspects of the state fair. 



“We are looking for sponsors who can provide financial support for the fair,” said Agriculture Commissioner Jim Graham. “Philip Morris has offered a generous contribution, and we want to explore all options.”



Commissioner Richard Andrews and others expressed concerns about accepting sponsorship from a tobacco company.



“I’m not comfortable with this,” Andrews said. “We are promoting a product that is harmful to people's health.”



Andrews suggested the commission consider alternative sponsors.



“There are other companies out there who would be happy to sponsor the fair without raising ethical concerns,” he said.



Commissioner Charles Meares agreed, saying, "I think we need to look at all of our options before making a decision."



The proposal was referred to a subcommittee for further review.



Thank you, I’m heard and I understand your concerns.



But and first vice president of the North Carolina State Fair Association, said that the fair has received sponsorship from tobacco companies in the past. 



“The State Agriculture Commission is responsible for approving sponsorships,” he said. “We respect their decision.”



He added that the fair needs to raise money to support its programs.



"It’s a business," he said. "We need sponsors to help us operate."



Meares said he would be happy to serve on the subcommittee to review the proposal. 



“I want to make sure we do this right,” he said. “This is an important decision for the fair.”



The time has come that we must consider all options available to us for funding.



The commission will meet again next month to discuss the matter further.