The Concord Tribune - March 10, 1994

page 2

16,000 tobacco workers protest proposed cigarette tax increase

CONCORD – More than 16,000 tobacco workers and their families rallied here Tuesday to protest Gov. Jim Hunt’s proposed cigarette tax increase.

After a noisy two-hour march through downtown Concord, the crowd gathered in front of Cabarrus County Courthouse, where speakers addressed the throng. Estimates put the number of signatures on petitions at over 100,000.

“This is not just about jobs,” said union leader Eddie McCombs. “It’s about our community.”

Hunt’s proposal would raise the state cigarette tax by $1 per pack, bringing it to $2.43 per pack. Supporters say the increase will generate revenue for education and health programs. Opponents argue that it will hurt tobacco farmers, factory workers and retailers.

“This is a slap in the face to working people,” said union member James “Buddy” Brown of Kannapolis. “It’s going to cost us jobs.”

The rally was organized by Local 253 of United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents more than 4,000 workers at RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co. plants in Winston-Salem and Concord.

“We’re here to send a message to Gov. Hunt,” said union president Richard “Bo” Jones. “Don’t do it.”

Speakers included state Sen. Harold Shaw of Cleveland, who told the crowd that he would fight the tax increase in the legislature.

“I want you all to know that I stand with you,” Shaw said.

Also speaking was Cabarrus County Commissioner Joe Davis, D-Kannapolis, who said the tax increase would hurt the local economy.

“This is a bad idea for North Carolina,” Davis said. “It’s going to cost us jobs and it’s going to hurt our communities.”

RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co. spokesman David Howard said the company estimates that the tax increase could result in the loss of 2,000 jobs in North Carolina.

“We are deeply concerned about the impact this tax increase will have on our employees and their families,” Howard said. “We believe it is a shortsighted policy that will hurt the state’s economy.”

Hunt has defended his proposal, saying that it is necessary to address the state’s budget deficit. He also argued that the increased tax revenue would help reduce smoking rates among young people.

“I understand that this tax increase will be unpopular with some people,” Hunt said in a statement released Tuesday. “But I believe it is the right thing to do for the long-term health of our state.”

The rally concluded with a march to the Cabarrus County Courthouse, where participants signed petitions and listened to additional speakers.

“We’ve got to do something about this,” said one demonstrator. “It’s going to hurt people who work hard every day.”

RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co. officials estimate that the company will lose $20 million in revenue as a result of the tax increase.

“This is a significant loss for us,” said Howard. “We are concerned about the impact it will have on our ability to invest in our business and create jobs.”

Local union official, Mike Mc-Combs, told the crowd that they would continue to fight the proposed tax increase until Hunt reversed his position.

“We’re not going to give up,” McCombs said. “We’re going to keep fighting for our jobs and our communities.”

Robert Irwin also led at the rally, carrying a sign that read: "Hunt, don't hurt us." He came to the rally in Randolph County with his family.

Irwin told the crowd that he wanted to send a message to Hunt about the impact of the tax increase on working families.

“It’s going to cost me money,” Irwin said. “I’m already struggling to make ends meet.”

He said that the tax increase would force him to cut back on his spending and could even lead to him losing his job.

“I don’t want to lose my job,” Irwin said. “I need it to support my family.”

The rally drew people from all over North Carolina, including Winston-Salem, Charlotte and Raleigh. Many participants wore signs and T-shirts that protested the proposed tax increase.

“We’re here to make our voices heard,” said one demonstrator. “We want Gov. Hunt to know that we don’t support this tax increase.”

The rally was peaceful, but police were on hand to ensure order.

“We are here to protect public safety,” said Concord Police Chief Robert Crites. “We want everyone to be able to express their opinions peacefully.”

Crites said that there were no arrests made during the rally.

The proposed tax increase is expected to be debated in the legislature next week. Hunt has vowed to sign the bill into law if it passes.

“I am confident that this tax increase will benefit the state of North Carolina,” Hunt said. “It’s going to help us address our budget deficit and improve the health of our citizens.”

The rally was organized by a coalition of labor unions, tobacco farmers and business owners. The group has been actively lobbying lawmakers against the proposed tax increase.

“We are not going to give up until we win,” said one organizer. “We believe that this tax increase is bad for North Carolina.”



2070914