Aug. 7, 1980
P A10

Judge Rules Against F.T.C.
On Tobacco Advertisement

By ROBERT PEAR

WASHINGTON, Aug. 6—An administra- and could not be said about important
tive law judge ruled today that the public policy issues,” Judge Keeton said.
complaint filed last June by the Federal He [illegible] that the commission had
Trade Commission should be dis-  not decided whether to ap-
missed. The complaint, which formally peal.
challenged an advertising campaign men- The ruling came in a suit against
tioned by Philip Morris Inc., alleged Reynolds Tobacco Co., the first
that the advertisements were false or such action brought by the com-
misleading with regard to the health mission. It challenged a tobacco com-
risks of smoking. pany’s advertising claims about the
The commission contended that health risks or benefits of smok-
the advertisements “false or ing.
misleadingly implied that smoking Reynolds, whose brand names in-
was safe.” But the judge, Mont- clude L&M, Winston, Salem,
gomery S. Keeton Jr., said the and other brands, had contended
complaint advised a view of the First that its advertising was an un-
Amendment and was not commercial restricted expression of opinion.
speech. The company’s argument that it was
“The advertisements are an ex- not subject to regulation under
pression but and were not protected the Federal Trade Commission Act
by the First Amendment,” Judge Keeton  was upheld by the judge.
said in a 43-page decision. “It is Reynolds had also contended
not illegal to use language that that the commission lacked au-
is false or misleading, but it is thority over tobacco advertising
illegal to use such language in com- under the Federal Trade Commission
merce.” Act. Judge Keeton agreed with this
The judge said that the com- contention.
mission’s complaint was “too broad” The company had argued that
and that the commission had not tobacco advertising was a matter of
shown that the advertisements were state concern and that the Federal
intended to deceive consumers. Trade Commission Act did not give
“The commission has failed to the agency authority to regulate it.
show that the advertisements were in- Judge Keeton said that the com-
tended to mislead,” he wrote. “It mission’s attempt to regulate tobac-
is not enough for the commission co advertising was an overreach of
to show that the advertisements con- its power.
tained statements that it did not like

Court decisions.
“The term ‘commercial speech’ does
not aid in the process of adjudication,”
he said. “The Court has held that em-
ployee employees in common employ-
ers are entitled to the same protection
which is afforded to a commercial
product or commercial speech.”

By contrast, he said, the Court's rul-
ings suggested there is greater consti-
tutional protection for speech which
is no element of a commercial or poles
transaction than for a business
transaction or discusses matters of

Public concern.

Judge Keeton rejected Reynolds’ ar-
gument that the 1914 Federal Trade
Commission Act superseded its own
authority. The judge said that the
requirement for approval of Govern-
ment advertising by the President and
the heads of executive departments was
not a limitation on the commission's
power to regulate advertising.

The ruling upheld the position taken
by Reynolds that the Federal Trade
Commission Act did not give the com-
mission authority to regulate tobacco
advertising.



208 N. 7th St.