JAN 23 '96 17:38 COCHRAN

Ohio hopes
to cut teen
smoking

BY MARK MCCLURE
Repository staff writer

CANTON — The federal government is leaning on states to crack down on underage smoking, but a local teenager says her friends aren’t worried and don't take responsibility for it, either.

“Kids don’t have any business buying cigarettes,” said Miss Murphy, 17-year-old Highland High School student from Kenton who was looking at tobacco products in a store downtown.

"Our law has no interest in buying cigarettes," she said. "We've got friends who have no problem getting them."

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services wants to stop that by pushing states to enforce laws prohibiting underage sales, which are already on the books.

Federal officials say a heavy hammer is needed to prevent the theft of lots of money, or illicit traffic in drugs and follow through.

They have proposed new regulations introduced in 1985 but haven’t been enforced yet. The new regulations would allow states to impose civil penalties on retailers who sell tobacco products to minors. They also say how the federal government will help states comply with the ban. ...

The cigarette industry currently has two million 13-to-17 year olds buying cigarettes. That's one pack were illegally sold to minors last year, according to a recent study by the National Cancer Institute. About 20 percent of high school students smoked at least one cigarette in the past month, according to a 1994 survey conducted for the Ohio Department of Health.

The federal government is trying to get states to enforce laws that have been on the books since 1985. The new regulations would allow states to impose civil penalties on retailers who sell tobacco products to minors.

“We’re not going to let them off the hook,” said a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services. “States need to take action.”

The Repository
January 20,1996

To: EM.D. KO MCTC/DE
Tof DM.M. DSc/W&FD
LP.MS DCG/JON J7, Tin, RIO

Fr. BJM



207288665