DAILY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT

SPECIAL REPORT
THE RISE IN TEEN SMOKING



UP IN
SMOKE



City's efforts
to curb teen
smoking face
obstacles. See page 3.




KIDS ROUGH



THE BEST





Rudy vows
to snuff out
illegal sales



By LISA SMITH
Daily News Staff Writer

Mayor Giuliani yesterday pledged to
put more teeth into his anti-tobacco
campaign, promising stiffer fines and quicker
penalties.

The mayor called for the creation of a
"strike force" within the Police Department to
target retailers who sell tobacco products to
minors, as well as increased prosecution of
the worst offenders amid punishment.

“We’ve seen evidence that even when the city imposed
fines on stores selling cigarettes to minors, they
simply paid them and continued their illegal activity,”
Giuliani said at a press conference. “This is not
acceptable.”

The mayor also proposed legislation that would
provide for repeat sales to kids to be treated as
criminal offenses, rather than civil violations. The
legislation would require retailers to check IDs
and maintain records of all tobacco sales.

He also announced the creation of a new public
service campaign aimed at deterring teens from
smoking and educating parents about the dangers
of tobacco use.

“We’re going to make it as difficult as possible for
kids to get their hands on cigarettes,” Giuliani said.
“And we’re going to hold accountable those who
facilitate that.”

Mayor outlined a three-pronged approach to
combating teen smoking: stricter enforcement,
education and prevention. He also announced a
$10 million initiative to provide cessation services
to teens who already smoke.



Voice Box (Call) ★★★★★
(See story on page 6)

WHAT THEY SAY: “Kids with a close
friend who smokes are more likely to
start themselves,” says Dr. Robert
Malone, director of the National Institute
on Drug Abuse. “They see their friends
doing it and they think, ‘It must be okay.’”



The mayor’s plan includes:

*   Increased police presence at stores that have
    been caught selling cigarettes to minors.
*   A public awareness campaign aimed at deterring
    teens from smoking.
*   Expanded access to cessation programs for teens
    who already smoke.




He also has on the city tobacco licenses, a $10 to
$25 fine for each time a store sells to a minor.
Giuliani said the current fines are “a joke” and
do not deter retailers from illegal sales.

The mayor’s plan comes as cigarette prices continue
to rise due to increased state taxes. According to
the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, the average
price of a pack of cigarettes in New York City is now
$6.50 – up from $4.50 just two years ago.



207072328