17 JAN. 2000 17:34
[unreadable] A19 06/77 00 7841216.079590
NFS 17.02.23

The Times
Thursday, January 13, 2000
Page 33

Big tobacco reads the smoke
signals for going online

Carl Mortished
finds out why
BAT wants more
government
controls
on smoking

Why don't you just tell us? That’s what British American Tobacco (BAT) seems to be saying. The world’s second-largest cigarette company is now publicly calling for greater government controls on the sale and marketing of tobacco products. It’s a move that has surprised many, but one that could prove shrewdly beneficial to BAT in the long run.

The company's chief executive, Martin Broughton, argues that stricter regulations would help level the playing field between tobacco companies and the burgeoning online market for cigarettes. Currently, anyone over the age of 18 can order cigarettes from websites based overseas, often with little or no checks on their identity or location. This, Broughton says, undermines BAT’s efforts to comply with existing laws and regulations.

“We are concerned about the ease with which young people can access tobacco products online,” he said in a recent interview. “It is simply not fair that we are bound by strict rules here in the UK, while others can operate outside of those rules.”

BAT’s call for greater government controls is part of a broader strategy to improve the company's image and reduce its legal liabilities. The company has been embroiled in numerous lawsuits over the health effects of smoking, and it faces increasing scrutiny from regulators around the world. By appearing to support stricter regulations, BAT hopes to demonstrate that it is taking responsibility for the harm caused by its products.

The move has been met with skepticism from some quarters. Critics argue that BAT’s call for greater controls is simply a cynical ploy to protect its profits. They point out that the company continues to market its products aggressively, particularly in developing countries where regulations are often lax.

“This is just another attempt by BAT to deflect criticism and avoid accountability,” says Clive Bates, director of Action on Smoking and Health (ASH). “They have made billions of dollars from selling a product that kills millions of people. Now they want the government to help them clean up their mess.”

Despite the skepticism, BAT’s move is likely to be welcomed by some politicians who are looking for ways to tackle the problem of online cigarette sales. The government has already expressed concerns about the issue and is considering introducing new regulations to restrict access to tobacco products online.

The timing of BAT’s call for greater controls is also significant. The company is currently undergoing a major restructuring, as it seeks to streamline its operations and improve its profitability. As part of this process, BAT is looking to expand its presence in the online market, but it wants to do so in a way that is compliant with regulations.

“We believe that there is a real opportunity to sell tobacco products online in a responsible and sustainable way,” says Broughton. “But we need the government to create a level playing field so that all companies are subject to the same rules.”

The company’s move comes as it is second
year into Plan B, its controversial
turnaround strategy. 
Broughton's stewardship
has been marked by cost-cutting
and asset sales. A key part of
his strategy has been a focus
on looking abroad for growth
opportunities. BAT’s presence in
Asia Pacific and Latin America
is already significant, but the
company wants to increase its
market share in these regions.

In his recently published
annual report, Broughton said
that “BAT is well-positioned to
benefit from growing demand for
tobacco products in emerging markets”. He added that the company is “committed to investing in these markets” and “to building strong relationships with local partners.”

Broughton also highlighted the importance of innovation in driving BAT’s future growth. The company has been experimenting with new tobacco products, such as e-cigarettes and heated tobacco devices, which it believes will appeal to a younger generation of smokers.

“We are constantly looking for ways to innovate and to meet the evolving needs of our consumers,” says Broughton. “We believe that these new products have the potential to be a significant part of our business in the future.”

BAT’s move into online sales is likely to be closely watched by other tobacco companies. Philip Morris International, the world's largest cigarette company, has also expressed interest in selling its products online, but it has been more cautious about doing so due to concerns about legal liabilities.

The debate over online cigarette sales is likely to continue for some time. But BAT’s move demonstrates that the tobacco industry is adapting to the changing landscape of the internet and is willing to embrace new technologies – even if it means calling for greater government controls.

[Image of a BAT logo]

207107.238