USA Today - March 10, 1994
page 2

COVER STORY

Pro-smokers fight back



"Anyone who do something like that, you're
going to get caught," says James A. Johnson, a se-
curities analyst with Newt Securities. "Prostitution, drugs &
cigarettes are all the same."

In Canada, where cigarettes cost twice as much be-
cause of taxes, convenience stores are being robbed
for cigarettes not cash. The 690 convenience
stores in Ontario lost $15,000 last year to cigaretts
robbery revenue for 28.5% of their net gasoline revenue.

Even though 28% of U.S. adults still smoke (60 billion
cigarettes a year), the anti-smoking movement
totals a $42 billion year, and the anti-smoking movement
will march on.

"On the train, people will come in and see if the
car is full," says Steve Shaw, 24, of New York. "I've had
people ask me for cigarettes." Shaw has been smoking
three years of smoking at Scott Corp. In Phila-
delphia, he works as a quality control inspector
and other maintenance costs. No more crumbling
cigarettes or other maintenance costs. No more crumblin

"Dozens of large companies most recently McDon-
ald's, have announced smoke-free offices," says Carrie
Freeman Hinkle, 36, of Atlanta, the only Major League
baseball player who smokes. "It’s a big business."

“It’s a big business,” says John P. Calzone, a re-
searcher for the National Cancer Institute's Na-
tional Services. “It’s being done for the same reason
that companies are doing it with asbestos and lead in paint
places," Cramer says. "Its no hiding to do with rights
or health. It’s about money.” The list of those involv-
ing workers - from farmers to accountants. It's about
money, says Jimmy Carson, who works rolling cigarettes
at Philip Morris in Richmond, VA.

"Oregon doesn't smoke, but I like buying new cars, new
houses and new boats," says Cramer. "I’m a smoker."

In Greenville, NC., “There’s no company that pays
a living wage,” says Jimmy Carson, who worked for 18
years clerk at American Tobacco. Pruitt's production line
was the first to be automated in the United States at
American Tobacco, we laid off 500 on 18. She says
she doesn’t know where she’ll go next.

“I don’t want to quit,” says Wayne Yancey, a tobacco farmer Oxford, NC.
"It's my livelihood." He has been farming for 30 years.
He says he’d rather die than quit his 400-acre farm out
from under him. “I’m not quitting.”

“When you sweat all your life and work hard at
this, the reward is smoking,” says Yancey. It's more
than just a cigarette or two if you want to tax some-
thing like that, it’s disrupting livelihoods."



20728408