MONTANA STANDARD
HELENA, MONT.
SUNDAY, AUGUST 13, 1995

25¢

For Gore’, environment is a photo op

“It’s the kind of thing you do to impress people,” says one Democratic strategist.

By David Johnston
Knight-Ridder Newspapers

WASHINGTON - Vice President Al Gore's recent tour of the Everglades National Park, complete with a dramatic canoe ride and a passionate speech about environmental protection, was more than just a photo opportunity, his aides insist. It was a serious effort to highlight the administration’s commitment to conservation.

But some political observers say Gore’s trip—and others like it—are carefully orchestrated events designed to bolster his image as an environmental champion and position him for a potential presidential run in 1996.

“It's the kind of thing you do to impress people,” says one Democratic strategist who spoke on condition anonymity. “You go somewhere that looks good, you say something that sounds good, and you get your picture taken.”

Gore has made environmental protection a cornerstone of his public persona. He’s written a book about it ("Earth in the Balance"), testified before Congress, and championed numerous conservation initiatives. But critics contend that Gore's passion for the environment is often overshadowed by what they see as political calculation.

“He’s always been very careful to manage his image,” says Republican strategist John Schooley. “And environmentalism has become a useful tool in that process.”

Gore defends his record, saying he’s genuinely committed to protecting the planet. “I believe we have a moral obligation to be stewards of the Earth,” he said in an interview. “It's not about politics; it’s about doing what’s right.”

The Everglades tour was part of a broader effort by Gore to raise public awareness about environmental issues and pressure Congress to pass legislation on wetlands protection, clean air and other measures.

“I want people to understand that we have a responsibility to protect these precious resources for future generations,” Gore said. “It’s not just about saving the Everglades; it's about saving our planet.”

Gore’s trip also served as a reminder of the administration’s commitment to environmental protection, particularly in light of recent criticism from some Republicans who accuse President Clinton of being too soft on polluters.

“We are committed to enforcing our environmental laws,” Gore said. “And we will continue to work with Congress and state governments to find solutions to our nation's environmental challenges.”

Gore’s Everglades trip was not his first foray into the world of staged photo opportunities. In 1992, he famously donned a hard hat and visited a coal mine in West Virginia to demonstrate his support for workers. The visit drew criticism from some who accused Gore of trying to exploit the miners' plight for political gain.

“He’s always looking for ways to connect with people,” says Schooley. “And sometimes that means putting on a show.”

Gore acknowledges that he has been criticized for his environmental advocacy, but he dismisses such criticism as politically motivated.

“I understand that some people will try to attack me for my beliefs,” Gore said. “But I’m not going to let them deter me from doing what I think is right.”

And the vice president says he plans to continue using high-profile events to raise awareness about environmental issues and pressure Congress to act.

“I know that this isn’t always easy,” Gore said. “But I believe it’s important to keep these issues in the public eye. And I’m going to do everything I can to make sure they stay there.”

He added: "I'm very proud of what we've accomplished so far, but there is still much more work to be done."

Gore also expressed concern about the potential impact of climate change on the planet. “We are already seeing the effects of global warming,” he said. “And if we don’t take action now, things will only get worse.”

He called for a global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and transition to cleaner energy sources. "It's not just about America; it's about the entire world," Gore said. "We all have a responsibility to protect our planet."

201714957