PRESS TEXAS BUREAU
DALLAS

I Lexington, Ohio - I

MIDLAND TX
RECOVERY TELEGRAM
AUG 18 1984



Penske stages sweep

By Tim Puet 355

Associated Press Writer

LEXINGTON, Ohio — Al Unser Jr. led a Penske sweep of the first three positions in Sunday’s Miller 200, despite a stop-and-go penalty against his teammate Paul Tracy.

The third Penske team member, Emerson Fittipaldi, was here in 1982
and last year, was third. Robby Gordon finished fourth and Michael Andretti fifth.

Tracy, who had led all but one lap, was penalized by CART officials for passing under a yellow caution flag on lap 53. The penalty forced Tracy to return to the pits, immediately making Unser the race leader.

The pass occurred on the second turn of the track, a notoriously difficult keyhole. Too fast, driving for the lead, Gordon’s car stalled and he stalled his car and was off the course with a tow truck blocking part of the racing surface.

Gordon's brakes apparently locked when he tried to slow down. The other brakes on Gordon’s car, which slid wide, were damaged in the process of going along the inside of the track. Gordon said he wasn’t sure what happened, but he just “planked” on passing him, resulting in losing his position.

Unser Jr., looking up at Unser and supporting himself with a smile, said, "I was lucky.” He added that he had been trying to stay close to Tracy all race long.

Unser clocked an average speed of 107.234 miles per hour for the 200-mile race on the 1.5-mile road course. His time was 1:59:56.88.

Gordon finished second, 10.60 seconds behind Unser. Fittipaldi was third, 28.83 seconds back.



IndyCar driver Al Unser Jr., leading Penske Team to sweep

Unser took his pit stop on the 27th lap, when Unser looked first place. Unser pitted one time during the race and Tracy’s penalty stop at the same time, allowing Unser to maintain his lead.

Tracy, who qualified second, slipped past Unser on the first lap and held the lead for most of the race until he was penalized on the 29th. Fittipaldi took first at that point, but lost it next to Paul Tracy’s front.

It was Unser's sixth victory in the IndyCar circuit this season and his fourth from the pole position, with the Penske team having won 10 races. It was the Portland Cleveland race and the first of the Mid-Ohio Sports Course.

In addition, it was the eighth triumph for Al Unser Jr., who is now tied with Johnny Rutherford as the all-time IndyCar winners with 29 victories. His father, Al Unser, has 37 wins.



Unser Jr. averages 107.234 mph
