Burrelle’s NewsExpress Fri September 24, 1999 Appeals On Page 30
P. 1 of 1 Page Arnold: NPND024. Circulation: 418,225

NEWYORKPOST

The Wrong Way on Tobacco

asking the courage to try and ban the sale of tobacco products. The Clinton administration has launched an ill-conceived lawsuit against the entire tobacco industry. The Justice Department’s action is a triumph for points on the Political Correctness front, but it is unlikely to achieve what it claims being accomplished: halt nicotine to addict.

The first place of the lawsuit is just the latest in a series of government actions against and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act. The suit is intended to serve as designed for a specific purpose: to weaponize it against mob kings who could not other-wise be prosecuted. RICO, however, has served a useful and highly limited role.

The lawsuit’s broad powers have immersed and threatened the very foundations of our legal system. Prosecutors from unregulated anti-smoker groups are now attempting to confiscate billions of dollars in assets from tobacco companies. The government is claiming that tobacco companies knowingly deceived consumers about the health risks of smoking.

Indeed, those hazards are spelled out quite clearly on cigarette packages and on the product’s packaging itself — and have been for decades. It is difficult to imagine how 50 years of suspended determination could be overcome by a few lines of text telling you that nicotine can be addictive.

The government’s lawsuit is based upon studies conducted in 1964. Tobacco-trade groups have since released their own studies questioning the validity of those qualities. But the evidence shows that the government has ignored these counter-arguments. The fact is that the most successful public health campaigns in history are the ones that educate people, not ones that punish them.

The lawsuit is a thinly veiled attempt to impose taxes on tobacco products and to transfer wealth from one group to another. It’s an attack on free enterprise and it’s an affront to the American way of life.

The government has also accused tobacco companies of marketing their products to children. But this accusation is based upon conjecture, not fact. The truth is that most smokers start smoking as adults.

The lawsuit is a waste of taxpayer money. It will cost billions of dollars to litigate and it will achieve nothing. The Clinton administration should drop the suit and let the tobacco industry regulate itself.

The government’s lawsuit is an attack on free enterprise and it’s an affront to the American way of life. It is also a sign that the Clinton administration is more interested in scoring political points than in protecting the health of Americans.

The truth is that the most successful public health campaigns are the ones that educate people, not ones that punish them. The government should drop the suit and let the tobacco industry regulate itself.

– Dan Burton
(Rep. Burton is a Republican from Indiana.)



Advertisement: Camel 100s – Get Ready to Roar!




[Image of a Camel cigarette pack]




Camel 100’s.




They’re longer. They’re leaner.




They taste richer.




Get ready to roar.




Camel 100’s.



