AB Request Dated 1/19/09

7/15

Cigarette Logos in Video Arcade Games Prompt Complaints

To: John H. Stott, Esq.
From: William M. Marcoullé, Jr., Esq.
Date: January 26, 1989

William M. Marcoullé, Jr. & Associates
3055 West Main Street
Richmond, Virginia 23220
(804) 355-7777

This letter is in response to your telephone conversation of January 23, 1989, regarding the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games. You indicated that you had received complaints from parents concerning the exposure of their children to such images.

We have reviewed the matter and understand that several video arcade game manufacturers are utilizing cigarette logos as part of their game designs. It appears that these logos are incorporated into the games for promotional purposes, presumably to attract players and increase sales.

The use of trademarked cigarette logos in this manner raises a number of legal issues. First, there is the question of whether such use constitutes trademark infringement. Trademark law protects trademarks from unauthorized use in commerce. However, the application of trademark law to video arcade games is an evolving area of law. Courts have generally held that the use of a trademark for purely ornamental purposes does not constitute infringement. It is possible that a court could find that the cigarette logos are being used merely as ornamentation and therefore do not infringe on the trademarks.

Second, there is the question of whether such use constitutes unfair competition. Unfair competition law prohibits deceptive or misleading business practices. It is conceivable that a parent could argue that the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games is deceptive because it creates the impression that the cigarette companies are sponsoring the games. However, this argument would likely be unsuccessful, as the games do not explicitly state that they are sponsored by any particular cigarette company.

Third, there is the question of whether such use constitutes a violation of advertising regulations. Federal law prohibits tobacco advertising directed at children. It is possible that the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games could be considered to be such advertising. However, this argument would likely be unsuccessful, as the games are not explicitly promoting cigarettes.

Finally, there is the question of whether such use constitutes a violation of state laws regulating the sale of tobacco products. Some states have laws prohibiting the display of tobacco advertisements in certain locations. It is possible that the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games could be considered to be such an advertisement. However, this argument would likely be unsuccessful, as the games are not explicitly selling cigarettes.

In addition to these legal issues, there is also a moral issue involved. Many people believe that it is wrong to expose children to images of tobacco products. While we cannot provide you with legal advice on this matter, we can say that we understand your concerns.

We have enclosed several articles concerning the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games. These articles should provide you with additional information on this subject.

Please note advertisements or trademarks are often used as part of a game’s design. The effect of Prime Time Television is to make it appear as if they are advertising. This may be considered an unfair practice, but the courts have not yet ruled on this matter.

We understand you want us to investigate whether there is any legal action that can be taken against video arcade companies for using cigarette logos in their games. We believe that such a lawsuit would be difficult to win. The legal issues involved are complex and the courts have generally been reluctant to restrict the use of trademarks or advertising.

However, we also understand that you want us to explore all possible avenues of redress. Therefore, we will investigate this matter further and advise you as to our findings. We will contact several attorneys who specialize in trademark and unfair competition law to obtain their opinions on this matter.

We will also attempt to determine whether any government agencies are investigating the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games.

This letter is for your information only and should not be construed as legal advice.

Sincerely,

William M. Marcoullé, Jr., Esq.

WMM:js

Enclosures

2017486548



this reply is to inform messages to start and build made an effort to include cigarette logos in games.
We have reviewed the matter and understand that several video arcade game manufacturers are utilizing cigarette logos as part of their game designs. It appears that these logos are incorporated into the games for promotional purposes, presumably to attract players and increase sales.

The use of trademarked cigarette logos in this manner raises a number of legal issues. First, there is the question of whether such use constitutes trademark infringement. Trademark law protects trademarks from unauthorized use in commerce. However, the application of trademark law to video arcade games is an evolving area of law. Courts have generally held that the use of a trademark for purely ornamental purposes does not constitute infringement. It is possible that a court could find that the cigarette logos are being used merely as ornamentation and therefore do not infringe on the trademarks.

Second, there is the question of whether such use constitutes unfair competition. Unfair competition law prohibits deceptive or misleading business practices. It is conceivable that a parent could argue that the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games is deceptive because it creates the impression that the cigarette companies are sponsoring the games. However, this argument would likely be unsuccessful, as the games do not explicitly state that they are sponsored by any particular cigarette company.

Third, there is the question of whether such use constitutes a violation of advertising regulations. Federal law prohibits tobacco advertising directed at children. It is possible that the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games could be considered to be such advertising. However, this argument would likely be unsuccessful, as the games are not explicitly promoting cigarettes.

Finally, there is the question of whether such use constitutes a violation of state laws regulating the sale of tobacco products. Some states have laws prohibiting the display of tobacco advertisements in certain locations. It is possible that the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games could be considered to be such an advertisement. However, this argument would likely be unsuccessful, as the games are not explicitly selling cigarettes.

In addition to these legal issues, there is also a moral issue involved. Many people believe that it is wrong to expose children to images of tobacco products. While we cannot provide you with legal advice on this matter, we can say that we understand your concerns.

We have enclosed several articles concerning the use of cigarette logos in video arcade games. These articles should provide you with additional information on this subject.