Fax: 3509

Apr. 27 '97 23:08 P.12

BURRELL’S
News-Express

ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

DATE: APR 26 1997

ANALYSIS

Tobacco
ruling
to boost
costs?

MARKET: Not only are
the companies expected
to pay more to settle
lawsuits, but a pack of
smokes may go up $2.

BY JEFFREY BENOIT - 487-5391

NEW YORK – The tobacco industry faces what some analysts say is a “watershed” moment as the first federal judge rules on its liability in the suit brought by state attorneys general to recover Medicaid costs associated with treating smokers.

The ruling, handed down Friday by U.S. District Judge Daniel P. Jordan Jr. in Tallahassee, Fla., could lead to billions of dollars in payments from tobacco companies and a significant increase in cigarette prices.

“That language will make the settlement talks more difficult,” said John Banzhaf, an analyst at Salomon Bros.

Facing the possibility of increased government regulation over its products, the tobacco industry may be willing to pay more money to reach a settlement, analysts said.

Richard Daynard, a tobacco litigation expert at Northeastern University School of Law, said he thinks courts have mentioned ni-
cotine addiction as a factor, but this is the first time that a court has ruled on it in such a broad sweep.

He estimated that the ruling could raise the price of cigarettes $1 to $2 per pack.

“In order to raise money for the states, tobacco companies will have to have to pack the price of cigarettes by as much as $2,” Daynard said.

John Luff, professor at Co-
lumbia College, said that the ruling “could significantly alter the likely trajectory” of cigarette prices. “It’s possible we could see a significant increase in cigarette prices, especially if they are combined with other regulatory actions.”

Analysts also say the ruling could affect negotiations between tobacco companies and state attorneys general to settle the Medicaid lawsuits.

Legal experts said Jordan’s ruling must be an especially bitter pill for the tobacco industry because it came from a conservative Republican judge in the heart of tobacco country.

“The industry had the advan-
tage of being able to bring this case in the most favorable forum that they could find,” Coffee said.

“The odds would be, if any-
thing, that the next round would be in a more liberal state court, and also there’s far less chance that the government’s authority over advertising would also be up held,” he said.

The tobacco companies have been resisting pressure to concede on a possible resolution of the lawsuits and to accept stricter regulations from the beleaguered but highly profitable industry.



207302