¬o wage restraint
call by rice to printers

eck 6 unpaid weeks— down at a mass meet-  or will actually be any better of
ing the strikers eventually than under the original wage deal
determined ones spin and settled for a slightly improved which they have already made up
to meet the annual Christ- deal than the one offered by the in their earnings lost during the
mas deadline. The union, employers. It is assessed that strike.
so finally reached on Octo- the 10 per cent wage ceiling ber 1965 was a thing of the past. Book publishers, already trying
ber 23rd.  The original demands were granted an immediate 10% to assess the impact of the re-
also also did little to stop rise and three further 8% incre- cession, estimate that the strike
ly. DV turned its attention to ments before the end of 1965, with will have a considerable effect
is pirate radio (see box). a full rate supplement in two on their planned titles for the tra-
e’s first raid of 1965, and years’ time. The settlement was ditional Christmas peak period of
e’s second raid of 1966, a well as the lowest-paid printers sales.  The effect of the strike
ographed overnight (NB: see in the country, it is generally on the shaky finances of the
e page). A few weeks later believed however than the gains smaller newspapers will remain
of Morgunblaðið printers are to be short-lived. to be seen.

industrial unions reach terms

ew set back, highlighting and while industrial unionists Living proof of
the need for a more flexible have been quick to end their better health
approach to wage negotiations. strikes, the employers’ federation The life expectancy of Iceland-
e Morgunblaðið printers’ has made it clear that the Con- is the highest in the world, at
strike was settled on October ference of Employers does not 73.5 years for men and 79.6 years
ber 23rd after six weeks of intend to negotiate with indivi- for women (compared with 69.8
action. dual unions over wage rates. and 73.4 in the UK).
e strike, which began on Sep-  The settlement reached with Icelanders have enjoyed out-
tember 17th, was a protest the industrial unions provides standing health life averages
against the employers’ refusal for an immediate 10 per cent for many decades. The reasons
to negotiate over wage rates rise and three further 8 per are complex but include:
and working conditions.  The cent increases before the end of - A diet rich in fresh fish,
employers had insisted that 1965.  There is also a provision milk and vegetables.
wage increases should be sub- for a full rate supplement in - Clean air and water.
ject to the 10 per cent ceiling two years’ time.  The settle- - A high standard of hygiene.
imposed by the government ment applies to about 40 per - Excellent medical care,
earlier this year. cent of unionised workers in which is freely available to
Iceland. all citizens.
he strike was marked by a The settlement also includes all.  The Icelandic health ser-
number of incidents of vio- provisions for improved working vice is funded through taxation
lence between strikers and conditions, including shorter and administered by the Minis-
police.  Several people were hours and better safety measures. try of Health.
injured on both sides. The strike has been criticised by some try of Health.
some economists as being un-
necessary, but union leaders Iceland’s population is only
argue that it was essential to 230,000, and the country has
assert the right to bargain col- a high proportion of doctors
lectively.  They claim that the and nurses per head of popu-
government’s wage ceiling is lation.  There are 15 hospitals
undermining the position of in Iceland, as well as numerous
workers and preventing them health centres and clinics.
from sharing in the country’s The average number of doctors
growing prosperity. per 1,000 people is 2.7, com-
pared with 1.8 in the UK.
he settlement reached with The infant mortality rate in
the industrial unions is a Iceland is one of the lowest in
victory for the union move- the world, at 15.6 per 1,000
ment, but it is unlikely to live births (compared with 9.4
satisfy everyone.  Some work- in the UK).
ers feel that the settlement is The life expectancy of men in
too modest, while others Iceland is 73.5 years, com-
believe that it goes too far. pared with 69.8 in the UK.
The life expectancy of women
it is clear that the govern- in Iceland is 79.6 years, com-
ment’s wage ceiling has had a pared with 73.4 in the UK.
chilling effect on wage negotia-  Icelanders are generally tall
tions throughout the country. and healthy, and they enjoy a
The settlement reached with high standard of living.
the industrial unions is a sign
that the government’s policy is The Icelandic economy is based
beginning to change.  Howev- primarily on fishing and agri-
er, it remains to be seen wheth- culture.  However, tourism is
er this will lead to a more gen- becoming increasingly important.
eral relaxation of wage con-  Iceland is a member of the
trols. European Free Trade Associa-
tion (EFTA).



Dark Days Dust?

e Morgunblaðið printers’ strike
was settled last week, but the
settlement has not been well
ceived by all.  The strikers
received an immediate 10 per
cent rise and three further 8
per cent increases before the
end of 1965.  But they also
accepted a full rate supple-
ment in two years’ time, which
many believe will be worthless
by then.

he strike was called after the
employers refused to negotiate
over wage rates and working
conditions. The employers had
insisted that wage increases
should be subject to the 10 per
cent ceiling imposed by the
government earlier this year.

e strike was marked by a num-
ber of incidents of violence
between strikers and police.
Several people were injured on
both sides.  The strike has been
criticised by some economists
as being unnecessary, but union
leaders argue that it was essen-
tial to assert the right to bar-
gain collectively.

he settlement reached with the
printers is a victory for the
union movement, but it is un-
likely to satisfy everyone. Some
workers feel that the settle-
ment is too modest, while oth-
ers believe that it goes too far.



nation just the same, literally
“dropping in” his family and
friends by parachute from a
height of 1,500 metres.

Dismissing suggestions by a
reporter from Morgunblaðið
that he had fallen into the
Swithon was demonstrating
his skill as a parachutist.



Living proof of
better health