B16 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1999

MARKETING & MEDIA

Philip Morris TV Ad Campaign Seeks
To Repair Cigarette Maker’s Image
By GORDON FINKEL
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
NEW YORK— Philip Morris Co., its corporate image battered by the tobacco wars, is launching a series of television advertisements designed to present the company as more socially responsible.

Nation's largest cigarette company said it will spend about 20% of its total annual advertising. The initial focus will be on publicizing the company’s philanthropic endeavors and emphasizing that Philip Morris “wants to make a difference.” The people of Philip Morris.

The ads are the latest-Philip Morris says and a wider effort by Philip Morris to reposition itself in the wake of the tobacco industry's reputation.

The campaign, which also includes Web sites that frankly acknowledge the health risks associated with smoking, has provoked an angry backlash from anti-tobacco activists who say it is a cynical attempt by the industry to lobby for tougher regulations.

“If they succeeded in getting to re-write the laws, then we’re all doomed,” said William D. Novelli, president of Boston College's Center for Corporate Citizenship and Ethics, and a former Philip Morris executive. “It’s like saying, ‘We’re going to help you clean up the mess we made.’”

Philip Morris is also trying to distance itself from other tobacco companies that have been criticized for aggressive marketing tactics and for targeting young people. The company has already begun phasing out its Marlboro Man advertising campaign, which critics say glamorizes smoking.

“We’re not going to be lumped in with the others,” said Richard J. Silvia, Philip Morris's senior vice president for communications. “We want to show that we are different.”

Philip Morris also owns Kraft Foods and Miller Brewing, and has been criticized in the past for trying to insulate those brands from the tobacco business.

One spot features an elderly woman talking about her volunteer work. "Who’s better suited to feed the hungry than America's largest food company?" she asks. Another ad highlights the company’s support for programs to protect children and its efforts to persuade retailers not to sell cigarettes to minors.

“We can’t allow our own critics to define who we are,” said Michael E. Pfeiffer, a Philip Morris spokesman. “We have a responsibility in the way we conduct our business.”

Philip Morris is also launching a Web site today that includes a discussion of the health risks associated with smoking and links up to Web sites of public health organizations. The company says it hopes this will be a positive contribution to the tobacco industry. The Philip Morris site, www.philipmorris.com, also features testimonials from people who say they’ve overcome cancer or other diseases, adding that "there is no guarantee” anyone is free of these risks.

“It’s risky to advertise a product that’s known to cause death,” said John Banzhaf, founder of Action on Smoking and Health, a leading critic of the tobacco industry. “But if they are going to do it, at least they should be honest about the dangers.”

The Philip Morris campaign is expected to run for several months and will appear on national television and in print publications. The company has hired the advertising agencies J. Walter Thompson and Foote Cone & Belding to develop the ads.

20170805