Cigarette taxes, by state

In response to a request from the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, here’s a rundown of cigarette taxes across the nation.

cigarette taxes are becoming states' levy of choice

By Carl Wiese

USA Today
January 13, 2003

More and more states are raising cigarette taxes as a way to generate revenue and discourage smoking. But some lawmakers worry that high taxes could lead to increased smuggling and black market sales. And they’re right to be concerned.

States currently levy an average excise tax of $1.18 per pack. Last year, 24 states raised their cigarette taxes.

“Cigarette taxes are a significant source of revenue for many states,” says Clark Wiese, senior policy analyst for the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. “They also help to reduce smoking rates.”

Louisiana Gov. Mike Foster signed legislation in June raising the state’s cigarette tax by 30 cents per pack to $1.28. The increase is expected to generate an additional $65 million annually for the state's coffers.

More and more states are raising cigarette taxes as a way to generate revenue and discourage smoking. But some lawmakers worry that high taxes could lead to increased smuggling and black market sales. And they’re right to be concerned.

The national average excise tax is $1.18 per pack. Last year, 24 states raised their cigarette taxes.

At $1.50 per pack, Maine has the highest cigarette tax in the nation. The state also levies an additional 37 cents per pack for local taxes.

“Cigarette taxes are a significant source of revenue for many states,” says Clark Wiese, senior policy analyst for the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. “They also help to reduce smoking rates.”

Louisiana Gov. Mike Foster signed legislation in June raising the state’s cigarette tax by 30 cents per pack to $1.28. The increase is expected to generate an additional $65 million annually for the state's coffers.

increases are going...

The money from cigarette taxes goes to a variety of programs, including education, health care and law enforcement. Some states also use the revenue to fund anti-smoking campaigns.

“States are using cigarette tax revenue to fund important programs,” says Wiese. “But we need to do more to prevent young people from starting to smoke.”

The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids wants to see all states raise their cigarette taxes to at least $2 per pack.

“Cigarette taxes are a powerful tool for reducing smoking rates,” says Wiese. “We need to use them effectively.”

USA
Today
3/17/98
3A

2017316759