SENT BY:
PLAINLITTON

5-23-81 1:00PM WACHTELL LIPTON+ 98075399:# 4

NY Times 2/26/81

U.S. Agency Suggests Regulating Cigarettes as an Addictive Drug

By PHYLLIS HILTZ
New York Times News Service

WASHINGTON, Feb. 25 - The Food and Drug Administration said today it is considering regulating cigarettes as addictive drugs, a move that could subject the tobacco industry to unprecedented federal control.

The agency’s action follows mounting evidence that nicotine causes addiction, and officials say they are seeking advice from Congress on whether to take such a step.

The FDA has been under pressure to act because the regulation of cigarettes is currently handled by the states, which some critics contend have failed to adequately protect consumers.

In a statement, Dr. Herbert P. Bresnahan, commissioner of the FDA, said that “the question of whether or not cigarettes should be regulated as drugs has for too long been avoided.”

The agency’s move is based on studies showing that nicotine acts on the brain in ways similar to addictive narcotics and that it causes physiological dependence.

“We have a responsibility to protect the public health,” Dr. Bresnahan said. “And if we determine that cigarettes meet the definition of a drug, we will take action.”

The FDA’s proposal would give it broad authority over the tobacco industry, including the power to control advertising, set standards for ingredients and labeling, and even ban certain products.

A spokesman for the agency said that it is seeking advice from Congress because the issue raises complex legal questions. “We want to make sure we have a solid legal basis before taking action,” he said.

The tobacco industry reacted with anger and denial. A spokesman for the Tobacco Institute, an industry trade group, called the FDA’s proposal “a blatant overreach of authority.”

“Cigarettes are not drugs,” he said. “They are agricultural products.”

The FDA’s move is certain to spark a fierce battle between the agency and the tobacco industry. It also raises questions about the role of Congress in regulating addictive substances.

The FDA officials and Congressional leaders have differed over who has the authority to regulate cigarettes. The FDA believes its regulatory action, if the facts bear out that cigarettes are addictive, would be supported by the Supreme Court.

But Congressman John Dingell of Michigan said that he does not believe that the FDA has this authority.

“I am concerned that it is too great a power for the agency to have,” Dingell said. “It is important for Congress to act on this matter.”

The FDA’s proposal, if adopted, would give the agency broad powers over the tobacco industry. It could require the manufacturers to warn consumers about the addictive nature of cigarettes and to disclose the amounts of nicotine in their products.

This splits the political burden to a measure of Congressional action from the executive branch.

Until then, the FDA has been more cautious. The agency is now seeking advice from Congress and will also consider public comments before making a decision.

Samuel Broder, a spokesman for the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, said that “we have enough scientific to be addictive.”

The FDA’s proposal was consisdered by many as an attempt to circumvent a legal finding that this was the agency’s responsibility.

“We are seeking advice on how to regulate cigarettes,” Bresnahan said. “We want to make sure we do it right.”

Making a Cigarette
A cigarette is made up of three main ingredients: tobacco, paper and glue. The tobacco is processed, dried and cut into fine strands. These strands are then placed between sheets of paper that have been treated with glue. The paper is rolled tightly around the tobacco and glued at the tip.

The FDA’s move follows a series of reports in recent years suggesting that nicotine is addictive. In 1979, the Surgeon General’s report on smoking and health concluded that nicotine is a highly addictive drug.

The FDA has been under pressure to act for some time. In 1975, a Federal court ruled that the agency had failed to adequately consider whether cigarettes were drugs.

The agency’s proposal would give it broad authority over the tobacco industry, including the power to control advertising, set standards for ingredients and labeling, and even ban certain products.

A spokesman for the agency said that it is seeking advice from Congress because the issue raises complex legal questions. “We want to make sure we have a solid legal basis before taking action,” he said.

The tobacco industry reacted with anger and denial. A spokesman for the Tobacco Institute, an industry trade group, called the FDA’s proposal “a blatant overreach of authority.”

“Cigarettes are not drugs,” he said. “They are agricultural products.”



