NEW YORK POST, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1996, 1¢

NEW YORK POST

America’s oldest continuously published daily newspaper

Anti-smoking skullduggery

Imagine this scenario: A scientist who claims to have discovered that cigarette smoke is harmless testifies on behalf of the tobacco industry to testify on behalf of the tobacco industry. The kicker? He's said that he is secretly receiving a six-figure payment. Meanwhile, lawyers have bought the interests in several luxury cars for him.

Now let’s change a few details. Say the scientist isn’t just testifying; he’s actively participating in what amounts to a payoff.

That, essentially, is what has happened with Dr. Robert J. Wigand, former research director for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. His allegations, revealed this week, are sending shockwaves through the industry and raising serious questions about the integrity of scientific testimony.

Wigand insists he didn’t want to be a whistleblower. “It’s just not fair,” he said in an exclusive interview. “I’m trying to do what’s right.”

The scientist’s research, whatever its actual merit, was buried under a mudslide of denial. The tobacco industry has long been accused of attempting to bury evidence that would support claims about the dangers of smoking.

Now let's change a few details. Say the scientist isn’t just testifying; he’s actively participating in what amounts to a payoff.

Wigand, who left Brown & Williamson in 1992, alleges that his former employer paid him $600,000 over three years to remain silent about internal documents showing that the company knew of the addictive properties of nicotine and had deliberately concealed this information from the public. He also claims that he was offered a job with RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co., another leading opponent.

Wigand insists he didn’t “buy” any document, perhaps not. But unless he is un-able to produce evidence, it will be clear why Wigand would provide Williamson with documents. We now know how to make responsible people to participate in the coverup.

This is not the first time that Scruggs has been involved in a lawsuit against tobacco companies. He also represented former Brown & Williamson executive Jeffrey Williamson sued Wigand for breaching his confidentiality agreement, a case being litigated widely reported appearance on “60 Minutes.”

The controversy surrounding the offer to Wigand is likely to be interpreted as an inducement to break the confidentiality agreement and disclose information about the substance of Wigand’s claims.

Meanwhile, the tobacco companies are suffering an embarrassment when a former employee testified before the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under seal. The FDA has since requested documents from Brown & Williamson regarding its research into nicotine addiction. It is also investigating the claim that the company had deliberately concealed information about the addictive properties of nicotine.

The allegations against Wigand, rounding the industry’s reputation, are likely to trigger a wave of lawsuits and government investigations.

2070401