Your world

207913843

The Journal News Monday, June 4, 2001 3E

Michael
Fox
Animal Doctor

Outdoor cats
at risk for
feline AIDS

® Recently, our cat was hit by a car. The vet said he had blood clots and that he had contracted feline AIDS and that he had compromised his immune system. He needed surgery; his quality of life was gone. According to my veterinarian, feline AIDS is widespread. Is there any treatment? Is it contagious? How can I prevent it in this so? We love in a rural area with many feral cats. What can we do to protect our cats to help not get this disease?
— Mary Lou H., Carson City

Feline AIDS is a disease that affects the immune system of cats. The first sign of feline AIDS may be weight loss, fever and lethargy. Repeated infections or bad infections are signs of feline AIDS. A weakened immune system, the cat becomes susceptible to diseases that may ultimately cause death.

The name feline AIDS or feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is somewhat misleading. It is not transmissible to humans; it is spread through bite wounds. The most common way for cats to get FIV is through infected saliva.

Soft collars can be prevented by keeping cats indoors and, if fenced, make sure the fence is high enough so that other cats cannot enter. Free-roaming cats should be tested yearly for FIV. If a cat tests positive, it can be managed with proper nutrition and veterinary care.

In a holding pen during a roundup by the Bureau of Land Management, east of Carson City, Nev., in this 2000 file photo, nearly half of the 25,000 wild horses in Nevada removed and placed in adoption programs in coming years, and they’re being administered the money for the roundups.

provide
in the herds Idaho

t plan to
uses
$30 million
to manage
wild horse
population

By JOHN
LEONARD
Staff Writer

IDAHO CITY — The Bureau of Land Management plans to spend $30 million over the next five years to manage wild horses in southern Idaho.

The money will be used for roundups, adoptions and fertility control, said Jim Wise, who heads BLM’s wild horse and burro program in Boise. “It’s a big commitment,” Wise said. “We’re trying to balance the needs of the wild horses with the needs of ranchers and other users of public lands.”

The BLM estimates there are about 1,300 wild horses in three herd management areas in southern Idaho: the Jarbidge, Bruneau and Succoth Creek herds. The agency’s goal is to reduce the population to about 750 animals per area.

“We want to keep the populations at sustainable levels,” Wise said. “If we don’t manage them, they will overgraze the range and damage the habitat.”

The BLM has been rounding up wild horses in southern Idaho since 1986. About half of the horses are adopted, while the rest are placed in holding pens.

“Adoptions are a great way to find homes for these animals,” Wise said. “But we can’t adopt them all.”

The fertility control program is relatively new. The BLM began using it last year on the Bruneau herd. The agency uses a contraceptive called PZP, which prevents mares from getting pregnant.

“It’s been very effective so far,” Wise said. “We’ve seen a significant reduction in the number of foals being born.”

The BLM is also working with ranchers and other users of public lands to develop grazing plans that will protect wild horse habitat.

“We want to make sure everyone has access to these resources,” Wise said. “It takes cooperation from all sides to manage them effectively.”



— Associated Press