National Pride

Over a Virus
In Philippines

BY SETH MADDOCKS

MANILA, May 11 — An editorial in a local newspaper declared today that “the country’s star world-wise image” was damaged by the incident at the drab little computer college where the 23-year-old student, one of two accused, outlined something close to the rogue program that crippled e-mail systems around the world.

The student, whose name is Guzman, appeared as a nervous character in the courtroom, and admitted that “it is possible” that he unleashed the program that caused tens of millions of dollars of damage in more than 20 countries.

He wore dark glasses and some-times fidgeted with his hands. He sat next to fellow student in an informal way, and they exchanged glances as if to reassure each other. The other accused is a 19-year-old who has been described as Guzman’s “right hand man.”

The two are charged with illegal access to computer systems, a crime that was only made a crime here last year. They face sentences of up to five years in jail and fines of more than $50,000 each if convicted.

“I didn’t know what I was doing,” Guzman said during the hearing. “I just wanted to see if I could do it.”

The prosecutor, a young man with a severe expression, told the court that Guzman had acted “with malice aforethought” and that he was “fully aware that the act imputed to him was done by him.”

He added that Guzman seemed telling as this law-tech country finds itself the epicenter of an international for-ay into computer crime. “These are computers play such a small role in our lives, we’ve never seen the need to write laws govern-ing their use,” he said. “Now we must act swiftly to prove that the government is not going to permit varieties known as viruses and worms to run rampant.”

The prosecutor added that it was of more studied interest into the computer college where Guzman studies, computer crime has been a growing problem.

He observed, following a tradition that has seen millions of Filipinos abroad to be laborers, nurses and domestic helpers.

For most other Filipinos, the com-puter is still a source of futuristic wonderment. The level of literacy in computer design, the Philippines itself was not affected by the crime last week. But it is now clear that the nation’s 60 million people own only 200,000 computers — less than one per cent of a country with one of the world’s high-est rates of illiteracy. Only 15 per cent of Filipinos are considered computer literate.

The incident has given rise to calls across the nation for a thorough investigation into the Philippine education system and its ability to prepare students for the challenges of the modern world.

“We must not allow this to happen again,” said one senator. “We must invest in our children’s future and ensure that they have the skills they need to compete in the global economy.”

The incident has also raised questions about the role of technology in Philippine society. Some experts say that the country is too reliant on foreign technology and that it needs to develop its own indigenous capabilities.

“We must not be slaves to foreign technology,” said one professor. “We must develop our own solutions to our problems.”



20507205