AREA AUTO RACING NEWS
TRENTON, NJ
WEEKLY 27,700
JAN 26 2000

BURRELLE'S

417
TRLN.V. 6A

ISC Eyes Meadowlands As Possible N.J.



By WILLIAM ELLIOTT
ORANGE - NJ – The International Speedway Corporation (ISC) is seriously considering a site in the New Jersey Meadowlands as a possible location for a new racetrack, according to sources close to the company.

An announcement of an engagement between ISC and New Jersey officials could come within the next few months.

Speedway authority for a thoroughbred track would be needed. 

“We’re looking at several locations in the country and the Meadowlands is one of them,” said an ISC source who asked not to be identified. “It has a lot going for it.”

The Meadowlands, located between Newark and Jersey City, offers easy access to major population centers and airports. It also boasts a large number of hotels and restaurants. 

New Jersey Governor Donald DiFrancesco expressed interest in the possibility of an ISC track during a recent interview. 

“I’m very interested in having a racetrack here in New Jersey,” DiFrancesco said. “It would be a tremendous economic boost for our state.”

ISC, based in Daytona Beach, Florida, owns and operates 10 major speedways including Daytona International Speedway, Talladega Superspeedway, Michigan International Speedway and Watkins Glen International. The company also has interests in several other racing facilities. 

The Meadowlands currently hosts harness racing and a Giants football stadium. 

“We’re aware of the existing uses of the land,” said the ISC source. “But we believe there is room for both.”

ISC is reportedly looking at a site near the Bergen County Arena, which could accommodate a racetrack with seating for approximately 70,000 to 80,000 people. 

Trump and ISC would work closely together on the project, according to sources. 

“Donald Trump has expressed interest in being involved,” said the source. “He’s very familiar with the Meadowlands area.”

The potential track would be a one-mile oval, similar to those at ISC's other speedways. It would also include a state-of-the-art grandstand and hospitality suites. 

ISC is currently conducting a feasibility study for the project. The study will assess the economic impact of a racetrack on New Jersey and determine whether there is sufficient demand for racing in the area. 

The study is expected to be completed within the next few months. 

“We’re very excited about the possibility of bringing ISC racing to New Jersey,” said the source. “It would be a great addition to our company and a tremendous benefit to the state.”

The Meadowlands site has been considered for various projects over the years, including an NFL stadium and a major sportsplex. 

“We’re confident that we can make this project work,” said the ISC source. “We have the experience and resources to do it right.”

New Jersey Senate President John Bennett (R-West Milford) expressed cautious optimism about the possibility of a racetrack in the Meadowlands. 

“It’s certainly something worth exploring,” Bennett said. “But we need to make sure that it’s financially viable and benefits the state.”

The New Jersey Thoroughbred Breeders' Association has also expressed interest in the project. 

"A new racetrack would be a tremendous boost for the thoroughbred industry in New Jersey," said NTBA President Bill Evans. "It would create jobs, generate tax revenue and attract tourists to our state."

Commercial Aviation
Bergen County Executive William Noll said he is aware of ISC’s interest in the Meadowlands. 

“We welcome any project that will bring jobs and economic development to Bergen County,” Noll said. “But we need to make sure that it’s done responsibly and with the input of all stakeholders.”

Other sites being considered by ISC include locations in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Virginia. 

The company is expected to announce its decision within the next six months. 

“We’re committed to finding a location that will be successful for both ISC and the community,” said the source. “We believe the Meadowlands has the potential to be that place.”



The New Jersey Thoroughbred Breeders' Association
P.O. Box 368, Bedminster, NJ 07921
(908) 252-2453
www.njbred.com

2002712/16