Ford might have right idea for NASCAR '94

BY MIKE HARRIS
AP Sports Writer

It's a little too early to know for sure, but Ford may truly have a better idea in NASCAR for 1994 than at least one of its competitors.

For those wondering what this year’s edition of the annual Day-tona Speed Week will be like, it will be the early betting says that the new Ford is going to rear deck on the Thunderbirds.

NASCAR has approved the new pieces because they are being used on the 1994 production Thunderbirds. The Ford racing teams began this month testing the new components which will be tested thoroughly before the open-ing of Daytona 500 practice Feb.

“From what we’ve seen in the wind tunnel, these pieces are going to be great,” said Rusty Wallace, whose Penske Racing team is in the process of installing them on its cars.

"The nose, in particular, has a lot of potential for down-force and it makes it real aerodynamic.”

It's chief for one of the new Ford Thunderbirds teams, Joe Gibbs, who said, "I think we’ve got a good shot. I really do. But you never know until you get on the race track.”

Gibbs is talking about the Winston Cup series, but he also has an eye on the Indy car scene. He has a team in the PPG Indy Car World Series and his son, J.D., is one of the top drivers in that series.

“I’m very proud of what J.D. has done,” Gibbs said. “He’s worked hard to get where he is.”

Ford's involvement in racing extends beyond Winston Cup and Indy car. The company also sponsors the U.S. national alpine ski team.

"We expect to be this right and we’ll be ready for the Dayto-na 500,” said Ford Racing Director Ray Conway.

Goodyear, which introduced radial tires to NASCAR in the Winston Cup and Indy car series, would seem to hold an edge going into the season because of its experience.

But noting, talking with Jack Flowers of the weekly Speedway Gazette, “I’m not sure what’s going to happen at Dayto-na. It's all a guess. They’re going to get whipped.”

Spoilers Tire Wars are back. Bodine’s Tires are on Lillieham-mer’s Ford Thunderbird and he’s concentrating on trying to win that race. He also has an eye on the Winter Olympics going on next month in Lillehammer, Norway.

Bodine will stay tuned to what's happening in Norway.

For those who may have missed it, Bodine has a very strong interest in winter’s and chilleding fortunes, helping fi-nance the U.S. national sled team that is going to Lilleham-mer.

U.S. official sponsor of the Olympic Team, has paid $10 million to the United States Olympic Committee and the Boston Marathon.

Ford's John Kalagian said, way and Bodine’s No. 7 Ford Thunderbird is a “real good-look-ing car.” He added that he’s been very impressed with Bodine’s performance on the track.

“He’s got a lot of talent,” Kalagian said. “And he’s really dedicated to his sport.”

Bodine, who has won 12 Winston Cup races in his career, is looking forward to racing against the new Ford Thunderbirds.

"They're going to be fast," Bodine said. "But we're going to be faster."

Ford is also sponsoring a special edition Thunderbird that will be available at Ford dealerships across the country next year. The car will feature a number of unique styling cues and performance enhancements.

“It’s going to be a real thrill for our customers,” Kalagian said. “They’re going to love it.”