SC-10-28
MYRTLE BEACH SC
(413) 296-200

Season’s

AUTO RACING
Leslie gets his first
Grand National win

THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Mansell wins Marlboro

CLERMONT, Ind. — Tracy Leslie, driving a car that had been sidelined for weeks that sidelined the veteran driver, won the Kroger 200 NASCAR Grand National race at Indianapolis Raceway Park.
The victory was the first in Grand National starts for Leslie.
“I can’t say enough about the crew,” they did it, Leslie said, “we didn’t know how many laps (the Oldsmobile) had on it and now it’s got a win.” The victory took place stood and cheered.

—Bud Bodine and Robert Pressley were fighting for second on lap 172 when the came up on the slower Buick of Troy Beede.
Pressley tried to pass, but Beede side-swiped Chevy in the wall, sending it spinning into the wall. Tommy Houston’s Ford, running third, also spun.

Reason and Steve Crispin in a Pearson, and Jim Sims, whose car was involved in the incident, ran well. Track crews cleaned up the mess with 37 laps to go.
Leslie averaged 85.941 miles an hour for the 200-mile race. He finished 1.3 seconds ahead of Darrell Waltrip.

BROOKLYN, Mich. — Nigel Mansell shrugged off a raging headache and a nagging shoulder injury to win Sunday’s Marlboro 500 at Michigan International Speedway.

Mansell, running only the second 500-mile race of his career, dominated the 250-lap race on the 2-mile banked superspeedway and regained the IndyCar PPG Cup point lead over pole-winner Mario Andretti and win Sunday’s Marlboro 500 at Michigan International Speedway.

The Briton, who had the Formula One champion, took the lead from pole-winner Andretti on lap 162 and never relinquished it. Mansell, improving the final 17 laps, increased his lead to 38.42 seconds over second-place finisher Bobby Rahal.
Mansell’s average speed was 190.57 mph.

Sunday he had with him after a crash in practice Saturday. He said he “just felt like I am.”

The victory, his first in Indycar competition, put him 24 points ahead of Andretti in the standings.

2053606