WORDS LESS

Thinking Positive

ALL THESE YEARS, we’ve been busy.
Busy doing things. Busy being.
But sometimes, it seems to me that a lot
of people are just going through the mo-
tions. They aren't experiencing life. They
aren't really seeing what's around them.
They aren't enjoying making food or listen-
ing to music or talking to friends. They’re
just… there. Going through the motions.

I think a lot of that has to do with re-
grets. Regrets about things we didn’t do,
things we said, things we should have done
good at something else. Some cases you
can't help it. 

People who generally
are important obviously to
the fact.

I think a lot of that has to do with re-
grets. Regrets about things we didn’t do,
things we said, things we should have done.
We get so caught up in what other people
think of us, or how we measure up against
them, that we forget to enjoy the simple
things. We forget to appreciate the beauty
of a sunset, or the warmth of a hug, or the
taste of a good meal.

I think it’s time for all of us to take a step
back and re-evaluate our lives. To ask our-
selves, “Am I really living? Or am I just
going through the motions?” If you find that
you're just going through the motions, then
it’s time to make a change. It’s time to start
doing things that make you happy. It’s time
to start appreciating the simple things.

It’s time to start living.

— Steve Page

The City of Animals

THEY AREN'T always cute, or cuddly,
or even particularly interesting to look at.
But they are here. And they are part of our
city. The raccoons that raid garbage cans in
the middle of the night. The squirrels that
chase each other across lawns and up trees.
The pigeons that strut around parks and
squares. The opossums that forage for food
in backyards.

These animals, and countless others, share
our urban environment. They live alongside
us, often unnoticed, sometimes unwelcome.
But they are a vital part of the ecosystem.
They play an important role in the balance
of nature.

And they deserve our respect.

— David Klinger

Numerous DWIs

Regarding the article on drunk driving (Feb. 2011), I’d like to point out that Missouri
has some of the most lenient laws regarding
drunk driving. As a mother who has buried
a son because of a drunk driver, I can tell
you it is not enough to simply suspend a li-
cense or give a small fine. We need more se-
vere penalties for those who endanger oth-
ers by drinking and driving.

I’ve seen many men and women walk out
of court with little more than a slap on the
wrist, while their victims are left to deal with
serious injuries and shattered lives. It is time
to make these people accountable for their ac-
tions. We need to jail them and take their cars
away. It’s the only way to stop this senseless
loss of life.

I know that some will say that we can’t af-
ford to punish drunk drivers more severely,
but I would argue that we can’t afford not to.
It is a small price to pay to save lives.

— Susan K. Thompson

I fully understood your coverage on drunk
driving. It's shocking to me how many times
I’ve seen people who should have known bet-
ter get off with little more than a fine or a
suspended license. I think we need to make
it so that if you drive under the influence,
you lose your license permanently.

— John A. Miller

Inquiry high quality and diagnostic
information from breast ultrasound and pro-
cedures such as core needle biopsy. The use
of contrast enhanced breast ultrasounds can re-
duce false positives.

The ability to perform a breast ultrasound
state, state-of-the-art diagnostic tools and
techniques is essential for accurate diagnosis
of breast abnormalities. The rise of more mod-
ern techniques such as contrast enhancement
and high resolution imaging has improved the
sensitivity and specificity of breast ultrasounds.

— Mary Elizabeth Winger

Violence in Sports

Regarding the article “Sports Violence” (Dec.
2010), I agree with the author’s assessment
that violence is a problem in sports, but I be-
lieve that the issue is more complex than it ap-
pears on the surface. While there is no excusing
the behavior of players who resort to violence,
it is important to understand the context in
which these actions occur.

Sports are often portrayed as a microcosm
of society, and they reflect the values and at-
titudes that prevail in our culture. In a so-
ciety that glorifies aggression and dominance,
it is not surprising that we see violence on the
field or court.

— Robert J. Stagg

Letters

To submit a letter of 250 words or less, send it to:
letters@weeklv.com

LETTERS

A29



City of Circus Animals