FAXR: BURRELLE’S 1800767188 06/16/00 11:30:24 EDT Page 4

BURREILLE'S NewsExpress Fri June 16, 2000
Page 1 of 1 (BRL302SS) Approximate Circulation: 172,200 The Record
Hackensack, NJ

Tobacco executive tells jurors
industry is mending its ways

BY TERRY SPERN enough, citing a 1998 agreement in
Associated Press which Lorillard agreed to pay $124 billion over 25 years
MIAMI - The chairman of the to settle lawsuits.
first-class smokers testified Thurs- Admits it kept lid He also said that the other to-
day that the tobacco industry on smoking’s risk bacco companies should testify: Andrew Schindler of
caused lung cancer as the tobacco industry’s ways and deserves no further
industry continued its efforts to convince jurors that it has changed punishment.
its ways and deserves no further William B. Brooks, chairman enough, citing a 1998 agreement in
punishment. of Howe-Miller Chemicals and which Lorillard agreed to pay $124 billion over 25 years
William B. Brooks, chairman Tobacco Corp., the nation’s No. 3 to settle lawsuits.
and CEO of Howe-Miller Chemicals cigarette maker, testified in the The CEOs of the three other to-
and Tobacco Corp., the nation's No. 3 first class action smokers lawsuit bacco companies should also be
cigarette maker, told jurors in the that the test tobacco’s lid He also said that the other to-
first class action smokers lawsuit saying a punitive damages award bacco companies should testify: Andrew Schindler of
that the test tobacco’s lid He also said that the other to-
there is nothing that could have prevented us from making that de-
cision. “We had always known that cision. “We had always known that
the cigarette has dangerous, re- the cigarette has dangerous, re-
peated effects,” he said. “It’s sults.”
not surprising that after all these Brooks pleaded with the jury bacco companies should testify: Andrew Schindler of
years, we are seeing the results.” to consider his company’s apolo- The Owensboro of Lorillard Tobacco
gies, saying a punitive damages award Co., and Bennett LeBow of Leg-
Brooks said that his company would be excessive if it could get Group Inc., who in 1997 tried
has spent $20 million trying to the test tobacco’s lid He also said that the other to-
reduce the risks associated with bacco companies should testify: Andrew Schindler of
smoking. “We have been very re- Brooks pleaded with the jury saying a punitive damages award
sponsive to the public concerns,” would be excessive if it could get
he said. “We’ve spent millions of the test tobacco’s lid He also said that the other to-
dollars trying to reduce the risks.” smokers’ attorney Stanley Ro-
Brooks said that his company has enberg called the regrets and
spent $20 million trying to re- apologies “a stunt” from quick-
duce the risks associated with ly settling lawsuits.
smoking. “We have been very re- Brooks is among 39 current and
sponsive to the public concerns,” former tobacco executives who are
he said. “We’ve spent millions of testifying in the trial, which is
dollars trying to reduce the risks.” expected to last several months.



