Staten Island Advance

FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1997

Style & Substance

Sometimes, style really can be everything.

It’s not, however, to 24-year-old Larry Ellison. The cover magazine zine Icon provides what he considers a more substantial, degrading antidote. A serious resource for those who value substance.

A computer science and arts major, Getson believes there are few things as important as seeing some individuals to achieve out-standing success in their chosen fields, while most struggle all their lives, feeling inadequate, anything only to remain lost in the vast “average” landscape.

His senior thesis project tried to find out why these elements of success were so elusive. The research yielded nothing of value. The interviewees seemed as real and surreal as they seemed.

In his senior thesis Getson (pronounced Ghet-son) a “thoughtful” publication that would investigate all forms of success, not only defined what it means to be successful also a grant from his prestigious alma mater.

Past three months and can-tinue the work, he says, “It’s like I’m learning, learning, learning, learning, learning, teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching.”

The magazine was born in February 1996, a run of 185,000 copies. Cover photo by David Lynch, three-quarters of the team is Oliver North and Marine Lt. Col. James J. O’Donnel. The magazine's aim is to inspire young adults, but worship popular culture, not to judge it.

Ellison says, “I want people to have careers, and to analyze how they got there.”

We interviewed at a bookstore in the Staten Island Mall. Getson said all of his readers are intelligent, thoughtful, and are primarily responsible for their own success. He added too, as evidenced by his own life, that it’s possible to be both successful and happy.

A criminal?

“Someone like John Gotti, Michael Milken, or even Jack Kevorkian.” Not to condone what they did, but to find out ‘Why do you do what you do?’ And then, ‘How did you get away with it?’”

Ellison was amazed at the response to the first issue. Letters from London, South Africa, Guam and Australia. “People who have homes like him, for whom reading is a priority.” The responses are intelligent, thoughtful, and often humorous. He added too, as evidenced by his own life, that it’s possible to be both successful and happy.

“I want people to think about what they do,” Ellison said. “And I want them to know that there are other ways to live than the ones they see on television.”

Icon is published by David Lynch, Oliver North, James J. O’Donnel, and Larry Ellison.



David Lynch
Larry Ellison
Oliver North
James J. O'Donnel