THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

AUG. 9, 2001

Going Into the Tank for Tobacco

The tobacco companies are up against it. They’ve lost in court, they're under investigation by state attorneys general, and their stock prices have plummeted. But now, they appear to be getting help from an unexpected source: a federal judge who seems determined to protect them at all costs.

This is Judge U.S. District Judge Reggie B. Walton, appointed by President Clinton. He’s presiding over the lawsuit filed by the Justice Department against the five largest tobacco companies—Altria Group Inc., Philip Morris USA Inc., R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., British American Tobacco and Lorillard Inc.—accusing them of fraudulently concealing the addictive nature of nicotine and misleading the public about the health risks of smoking.

The Justice Department is seeking $25 billion in penalties and a court order requiring the companies to turn over millions of pages of internal documents. The case has been dragging on for years, but until recently it seemed like a fairly straightforward matter. The government had compelling evidence—internal memos, scientific studies, witness testimony—showing that the tobacco companies knew their products were dangerous and addictive, yet continued to market them aggressively while denying the risks.

Then came Judge Walton. He’s been systematically dismantling the Justice Department’s case, dismissing key witnesses, excluding crucial documents and ruling against the government on almost every major issue. Last week, he went so far as to accuse the Justice Department of “bad faith” for seeking to introduce evidence that had previously been disclosed to the tobacco companies.

“It is clear,” Judge Walton wrote, “that the government’s intention is not to obtain justice but to harass and embarrass the defendants.”

The judge's actions have drawn criticism from legal experts and consumer advocates who say he appears to be tilting the scales in favor of the tobacco industry. “He’s acting like a defense attorney,” says one former Justice Department lawyer familiar with the case. “It’s as if his mission is to make sure these companies escape accountability.”

The judge insists that he's simply applying the law fairly and impartially. But his rulings have been so consistently favorable to the tobacco companies that they raise serious questions about whether he can be objective.

One troubling aspect of Judge Walton’s behavior is his apparent hostility toward the Justice Department’s star witness, Dr. Elizabeth Palermo, a former Philip Morris scientist who testified that the company deliberately suppressed research showing nicotine's addictive properties. The judge repeatedly interrupted Dr. Palermo during her testimony, challenged her credibility and even accused her of perjury.

“It seems to me,” Judge Walton said at one point, “that you’re trying to get on television.”

Another curious episode occurred last year when the judge abruptly postponed a hearing after receiving a phone call from an unidentified caller who claimed to have information about the case. The judge then left the courtroom without explaining why and didn't return for nearly an hour.

The Justice Department has accused Judge Walton of bias, but he has denied any wrongdoing. He says his rulings are based solely on the law and the evidence presented in court.

But the judge’s actions have raised concerns among some members of Congress who say he should be investigated. “We need to determine whether this judge is acting appropriately,” says Rep. Henry Waxman (D-Calif.). “The public has a right to know that justice is being served fairly.”

And from the Justice Department's perspective, it’s not just about winning or losing this particular case. It’s about sending a message that corporations can’t lie and deceive the public with impunity.

“If we allow these companies to escape accountability,” says one senior Justice Department official, “it will send a terrible signal to other industries that they can get away with similar behavior.”

The tobacco industry has spent decades fighting to protect its profits, often through deceptive marketing practices and political lobbying. But now, it appears to have found an unlikely ally in a federal judge who seems determined to shield them from justice.



Politics & People

By John F. Harris
Staff Reporter

The Justice Department’s lawsuit against the tobacco industry is supposed to be about holding corporations accountable for deceiving the public. But increasingly, it's become a case about whether one federal judge is tilting the scales of justice in favor of Big Tobacco.

out standing for health reasons.

Revealing this, the Bush team insists,
is simply a matter of transparency.
“We want to make sure American people
know who’s contributing to campaigns,”
says campaign finance lawyer Robert
Burdett, who advises the Bush team on
campaign finance and ethics.

With the Supreme Court likely to rule last
year's Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act—



Then came the about what a week
ago: that Mr. Cheney had made a $25,000
contribution to Sen. John McCain’s presidential campaign. Even though
Mr. Cheney is a Republican and has
been a vocal supporter of President Bush,
the contribution raised eyebrows because
it was made to a candidate who has
repeatedly clashed with the administration.

At the same time as the Justice Department
was losing ground in court, Mr. Cheney
quietly gave $50,000 to Sen. Daniel
Paine, just before the conservative Delaware Republican’s re-election campaign.
Just figuring out how much money is being
spent on campaigns is a challenge. The
last count of contributions to political
campaigns was over $1 billion.

Mr. Cheney's contribution to Mr. McCain
was a George Washington University professor and former Justice Department official,
who says that the Cheney team’s actions
were “a bit unusual.” He added that it would
be difficult to determine whether the
contribution was made in order to support
Mr. McCain or to undermine him.

“It's hard to tell,” he said. “It could be
intended as a signal of support, or it could
be intended as a way to make sure Mr.
McCain doesn’t win.”

The Justice Department is appealing Judge
Walton’s rulings, but the case is unlikely to
be resolved before the 2004 elections. In
the meantime, the tobacco companies are
enjoying a significant victory, thanks to a
judge who seems determined to protect them
at all costs.



Mr. Cheney's contribution to Mr. McCain
was a surprise because he has been a vocal
critic of campaign finance reform and has
opposed efforts to limit contributions to
political campaigns. But last week over
$25,000 was contributed to Sen. McCain’s
campaign.

And from the Justice Department's perspective, it’s not just about winning or losing this particular case. It’s about sending a message that corporations can’t lie and deceive the public with impunity.

“If we allow these companies to escape accountability,” says one senior Justice Department official, “it will send a terrible signal to other industries that they can get away with similar behavior.”

The tobacco industry has spent decades fighting to protect its profits, often through deceptive marketing practices and political lobbying. But now, it appears to have found an unlikely ally in a federal judge who seems determined to shield them from justice.



245-80956




