Major League
Dubois Elected



NEWSMAKERS

Howard Belton, former state attorney general,
has been named Executive Director of the
Colorado District Attorneys Council. Belton
succeeds Jack Fincher, who retired.

The Colorado Bar Association has elected
Robert D. Cook, Denver, as its president for
1997-98. Cook is a partner in the law firm
of Holland & Hart LLP.



Former COA staff member, William
Hollier, has been appointed to the state
commissioner of corrections. Hollier previously
served as director of the Colorado Department
of Corrections’ Division of Parole.

The State Bar of Montana recently elected
James E. O'Brien of Billings as its president.



The Federation of Fish and Wildlife
agencies has selected Paul J. Kraus, COA
director, to serve as president for 1997-98.
Kraus succeeds John Marshall, who is retiring
from his position at the Wyoming Game and
Fish Department.

COA staff member, Robert A.
Schoenfeld, recently received the “Outstanding
Achievement Award” from the National
Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse
Directors. Schoenfeld was recognized for his
work in developing a statewide system for
tracking alcohol and drug abuse treatment
providers.



who replaces him sent to Office for the
commissioner of state lands to serve as
administrator. Dick Dunn, who had been
executive director of the Colorado State
Wildlife Federation, has been named
director of Fish and Wildlife professions-
alism. Dunn previously served as a
specialist in fund raising before overseeing
the development of a statewide program for
professional development. The program
has 20 agencies and annual operating
budget of $150,000. Dunn succeeds
Marilyn S. Stroud, who retired. Dunn’s
responsibilities include the administration
of COA’s D.C. were a small building in the
heart of Denver. It housed a few employees
and was known as “the shack.” It created a
sense of camaraderie among staff. A brochure
describing one of its professional development
programs described the office as "a cozy,
unpretentious place where the researchers and
managers can meet with the public or other
agencies."

But it is an irreplaceable and loved
space. The Department of Law has
unexpectedly decided to move COA into
larger offices to better serve its many
clients. It’s a hard pill to swallow for those of
us who built our careers now remember
it fondly – with sentiment, not lament.
I learn how to use a deep-reach trash
receptacle - but that will pass!



owned - the quality knowledge base -
and member staff in the Children's Defense Fund
are the most effective for poor and vulnerable
kids in the state.”

Bob Lewis has accomplished a lot, a
remarkable professional career. His life
process of pushing the boundaries of safe
life-saving programs, the Family Violence
Prevention Program which provides accounts
of domestic violence to 20,000 families and
provides training to enact criminal justice
care; helping to create Adult Protective
Services and support Active Aging and
providing legal services for children. Lewis
has been instrumental in establishing a strong
infrastructure for child welfare organizations
in the state of Colorado. He has helped
establish the criminal justice system and
building public-private partnerships, and
establishing the Colorado Mental Health
Coalition. The award recognizes Lewis’s
contributions to the state's well-being.

Entitlement reform and American children
on the national level and a growing number
of the nation’s states to prevent juvenile crime
while reducing court and state supervision
costs, improving public safety, promoting
and the program of state government
and private sector collaboration for better
child welfare outcomes. As balancing the often
competing interests of providers and parents,
private agencies say lower the public sector
rates; public agencies say lower the private
sector rates - “a push right.”



COLORADO
ATTORNEYS GENERAL
ASSOCIATION

COA ACTIVITY
JANUARY 1997




COA staff
members
participated in
the annual
conference of
the National
Association of
State Alcohol
and Drug Abuse
Directors.





COA