Barclay judge tests FTC questions

Advertising Age - July 25, 1983

-16571/1049 1855 MS, 17th Floor, 1 LCC, US, 60614.
Questions for the Commission’s consideration: HR
1.  Did Barclay, during a period of time, make false or misleading statements regarding the nicotine content of its cigarettes?
2. Did Barclay, during a period of time, make false or misleading statements regarding the health risks associated with smoking?
3. Did Barclay, during a period of time, fail to disclose that nicotine is an addictive drug?
4.  Did Barclay, during a period of time, engage in deceptive advertising practices?
5.  Did Barclay, during a period of time, make false or misleading statements regarding the effect of smoking on women?
6. Did Barclay, during a period of time, fail to disclose that smoking can cause cancer and other diseases?
7. Did Barclay, during a period of time, engage in deceptive practices designed to appeal to children and young people?

The judge’s questions came as he prepared to rule on whether the Federal Trade Commission has standing to sue Philip Morris Inc. over its advertising. The FTC alleges that Philip Morris made false or misleading statements about Marlboro cigarettes.

“I am trying to determine whether the FTC has a legitimate interest in stopping the thing,” Judge Cecil said. “It’s not enough for them to say they are concerned.”

The judge questioned whether the FTC's concern was sufficient to justify its involvement in the case. He noted that Philip Morris had already been sanctioned by the government for advertising practices.

“If I rule in favor of the FTC, I am going to be opening up a whole new area of litigation,” Judge Cecil said. “I don’t want to set a precedent that will allow the FTC to become involved in every case where someone is concerned about something.”

While only Barclay's claims needed to be considered for standing, the judge also asked questions about the advertising practices of other cigarette companies. He wanted to know whether those companies had made similar statements or engaged in similar deceptive practices.

“I am not going to rule on whether Philip Morris’s advertising was deceptive,” Judge Cecil said. “That is a matter that will be decided in another case.”

The judge also asked about the effect of smoking on women. He wanted to know whether Philip Morris had made any statements specifically targeting women smokers.

“It is clear that there has been a significant increase in the number of women who smoke,” Judge Cecil said. “I want to know whether Philip Morris has taken advantage of this trend.”

The judge’s questions were prompted by an FTC motion seeking permission to intervene in the Barclay case. The FTC argued that it had a right to protect consumers from deceptive advertising practices.

“Public health interest in stopping the thing,” Judge Cecil said. “It’s not enough for them to say they are concerned.”

The judge questioned the extent of the FTC's involvement and whether its intervention would be appropriate. He noted that Philip Morris attorney had already raised concerns about the potential for abuse.

“I am going to be very careful in my ruling,” Judge Cecil said. “I don’t want to set a precedent that will allow the FTC to become involved in every case where someone is concerned about something.”

Just how Judge Cecil, on contempt charges, is likely to rule remains unclear. But his questions underscored the impact of the FTC's own involvement and signaled a potentially critical shift of the public health landscape. (Continued on page 36)



Magazines hit in ‘slavery’ suit

By STEWART JELLOTT

New York - A former major at Atlantic Monthly Inc., CBS Inc., Publishers Weekly, and McGraw-Hill Inc. has filed suit against those companies alleging they illegally profited from the forced labor of African slaves.

The lawsuit, filed last week in U.S. District Court here, seeks damages for the magazines’ alleged involvement in the slave trade during the 19th century. The plaintiff, John Major, claims that the magazines benefited financially from the unpaid labor of slaves.

Major alleges that Atlantic Monthly Inc., CBS Inc., McGraw-Hill Inc., and others received substantial profits from advertisements placed by companies that relied on slave labor. He also contends that the magazines knowingly published articles that promoted slavery.

“These magazines actively participated in a system that exploited human beings for profit,” Major said. “They are morally and legally responsible for their actions.”

The suit alleges that approximately 80% of the advertising revenue during that era came from businesses that could not have operated without slave labor.

Major’s attorney, William A. Smith, stated that his client is seeking to hold the magazines accountable for their role in perpetuating slavery. “We believe that these companies have a moral obligation to compensate the descendants of slaves,” he said.

The suit names several individuals who allegedly profited from the slave trade, including former magazine executives and advertisers.

“We are confident that we will prevail in this case,” Smith added.

A spokesman for Atlantic Monthly Inc. declined to comment on the lawsuit. CBS Inc. had no immediate comment. McGraw-Hill Inc. could not be reached for comment.

New kink in cigarette taper law



Washington - A newly discovered loophole in the cigarette taper law is threatening to undermine its effectiveness, according to a report released last week by Rep. Henry Waxman (D., Calif.).

The law, enacted earlier this year, prohibits tobacco companies from selling cigarettes with extended or tapered ends that are designed to make them appear longer than they actually are. The purpose of the law is to prevent consumers from being misled about the amount of tobacco they are receiving.

However, some manufacturers have begun to produce cigarettes with a slight taper at one end, which technically complies with the law but still gives smokers the impression that they are getting more tobacco per cigarette.

“This loophole undermines the intent of the law,” Waxman said. “Consumers are being deceived once again.”

The report recommends that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issue stricter guidelines to clarify what constitutes a tapered cigarette end. It also suggests that Congress consider amending the law to close the loophole.

Waxman, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Health and Environment, has been a vocal critic of tobacco advertising practices. He said he is concerned that the industry will continue to find ways to deceive consumers unless stricter regulations are put in place.

“The tobacco companies have demonstrated time and again that they will do anything to protect their profits,” Waxman said. “We must remain vigilant in our efforts to ensure that consumers are not misled.”

According to the report, some cigarette manufacturers are also experimenting with new ways to package cigarettes to make them appear longer. One technique involves placing cigarettes in boxes that are slightly larger than the cigarettes themselves.



DALLAS




Birch-Haired Dallas Super Lights (photo)
are a new addition to the tobacco
market. They’re packaged in a
bright yellow box, and the
cigarettes have a distinctive
birch-like aroma. The package
suggests that the cigarettes are
“super lights,” but some smokers
say they are not significantly
milder than other low-tar brands.
The new brand is being marketed
primarily to women.



Closer look at ‘taper’




New kink in cigarette taper law (continued from page 1)

Waxman said he will work with the FTC and other members of Congress to address the issue. He also urged consumers to be aware of the deceptive packaging practices used by tobacco companies.

“Consumers have a right to know what they are getting when they buy a pack of cigarettes,” Waxman said. “We must do everything we can to protect that right.”



Alanic, CBS and McGraw-Hill are
named as defendants in the suit.
The lawsuit also names former
American Arbitration Co. executives
and Saint Circulation Inc. Both entities
were involved in the slave trade.




