SEP. 8 89 9:13 BURSTON MAKSWELLAK

DEPT. (TX) : 0008

NEWS

'Plane' Speaking
on Cabin Air Quality

The problem of indoor air quality is one of growing concern internationally. We spoke with Dr. Larry Holcomb, a Michigan biologist who specializes in toxicological investigations, governments and industries concerned about one facet of this problem – cabin air quality on commercial airplanes. Holcomb recently completed a comprehensive study on cabin air quality that was published in Environmental Technology Letters, a scientific journal.

Q: What are some of the components of poor airplane cabin air quality and what impact?

A: A major factor is low relative humidity, which can drop from 40 to 70 percent to 5 to 10 percent when aircraft fly at high altitude. This results in dry air, cold air and heated for circulation. This drop can result in eye irritation and dryness of nasal passage and the respiratory tract.

Another factor is ozone brought into the cabin with outside air. Ozone has been associated with eye discomfort, chest pain or tightness, breathing difficulty, nausea, persistent coughing and sore throat. The symptoms of these two factors are often mistakenly reported as "airplane sickness."

Q: How serious are the concerns to passengers about airplane air quality?

A: There is a great deal of concern among passengers. Even pilots too much interest in this problem. It’s been fueled by publicity surrounding the mention of tobacco, in fact, any of the symptoms associated with poor cabin air quality can be caused by low relative humidity, ozone or the other factors I mentioned.

Airlines, at their discretion, can provide an active turnover of filtered fresh air. There is no evidence that environmental tobacco smoke adversely affects the health of non-smoking passengers and crew.

Q: Will banning smoking on commercial airlines solve the problem associated with poor cabin air quality?

A: I don’t think it will solve any problems. In fact, it could even create disadvantages by providing a false sense of security to the passengers who might believe that because they aren't being exposed, they are better off when actually they may not.

Q: What can be done to improve cabin air quality?

A: If good ventilation and sufficient humidity should be provided. Also, aircraft should be equipped with catalytic converters to remove ozone (NOx) from the air supply.

Speaking of airplane air quality, Holcomb said, “Environmental Industrial Technology’s ‘Blue Box’ is a very promising device for removing ozone and other contaminants from cabin air.”

Holcomb added that he has been working with NASA on a project to develop an improved system for monitoring cabin air quality.



259NT045