2508370845

HIGHER COMB

The New York Times

The New York Grimes

Real Estate Advertisers

Call (212) 555-1664

“It is a very free market,” said Mr. Kirshenbaum, “and it’s going to be a very competitive situation.”

Mr. Kirshenbaum added that the firm’s approach is to offer clients a product or a building that is so attractive that they will want to buy it, regardless of what else is available.

“We are not trying to sell them something,” he said. “We are trying to give them something.”

The firm has been in business for 16 years and has offices in New York and Los Angeles. It specializes in marketing luxury residential properties, including apartments, townhouses and estates.

Mr. Kirshenbaum said that the firm’s clients include developers, builders and investors.

“We work with all types of people,” he said. “We are not limited to any one type of client.”

The firm has been involved in marketing some of the most prestigious residential properties in New York City, including The Osborne, a luxury apartment building on Fifth Avenue, and The Dakota, a landmark co-op on Central Park West.

“We have a very strong track record,” said Mr. Kirshenbaum. “We are able to create a buzz around a property that will attract buyers.”

The firm’s marketing campaigns often include print advertising, television commercials and public relations events.

“We want to make sure that people know about our clients’ properties,” said Mr. Kirshenbaum. “We want to create a sense of excitement and anticipation.”

Mr. Kirshenbaum said that the firm is always looking for new ways to market residential properties.

“The real estate industry is constantly changing,” he said. “We need to be able to adapt to those changes.”

He added that the firm is committed to providing its clients with the best possible service.

“We want to make sure that our clients are happy,” he said. “We want them to come back to us again and again.”

Mr. Kirshenbaum said that the firm’s success is due in part to its ability to understand the needs of its clients.

“We take the time to get to know our clients,” he said. “We want to understand what they are looking for.”

He added that the firm is also committed to providing its clients with accurate and up-to-date information about the real estate market.

“We want to make sure that our clients have all of the information they need to make informed decisions,” he said.

Mr. Kirshenbaum said that the firm’s goal is to help its clients achieve their financial goals.

“We want to help our clients buy or sell properties that will increase their wealth,” he said. “We want to be a partner in their success.”

He added that the firm is also committed to giving back to the community.

“We believe that it is important to support local charities and organizations,” he said. “We want to make a difference in the world.”

Mr. Kirshenbaum said that the firm’s employees are its most valuable asset.

“We have a great team of people,” he said. “They are all dedicated to providing our clients with the best possible service.”

He added that the firm is always looking for new talent.

“We want to hire people who are passionate about real estate and who are committed to excellence,” he said.

Mr. Kirshenbaum said that the firm’s future looks bright.

“The real estate market is strong, and we are well-positioned to take advantage of it,” he said. “We are excited about what the future holds.”

This makes more sense or less?

Houses increase in value.



