Gaule has home, becoming a case
of “illegal entry,” where persons
are accepted here but are then
deported any moment.”

It is in the annals of immigration
that such stories appear—the tale
one of mishaps, misfortune and
sometimes, even tragedy. In this
case, following changes of anti-
communist legislation, Mr. Gaule
sought refuge several from years
ago. He was granted his request
for political asylum. His request

dict “illegal entry,” where persons
are accepted here but are then
deported any moment.”

It is in the annals of immigration
that such stories appear—the tale
one of mishaps, misfortune and
sometimes, even tragedy. In this
case, following changes of anti-
communist legislation, Mr. Gaule
sought refuge several from years
ago. He was granted his request
for political asylum. His request

has been authorised can help
you in this matter,” she said.

Officials in France, Bel-
gium and Switzerland have re-
peatedly refused to accept Nas-
seri. Paris officials Nasseri could
claim refugee status if he
could gain access to duplicates
of his passport. French immi-
gration authorities. The Swiss
administration refuses to give
him citizenship or to allow

“any optimistic,” he said, “but
in the meantime, he continues
with his meticulous and well
organised travel arrangements.
facilities and travel packs from
trimming his Chaplin-like
moustache. He sleeps in a
bench shelter in Burger Park
and eats at a cafeteria in the
de Gaulle building.

Fallacies that can be
fatal in medical matters

Barry Groves challenges the research technique of meta-analysis

Weekend, Fri of count the numbers and to supply
the 7th of March. Barry Groves, an expert on statistical
described the analysis as “a form of pseudo-science.”
medical analysis went, the most important thing is to interpret
“The problem with meta-analysis,” he said, “is that it is to wham-what
dangerous when taken: to
the point where it can be used
to justify almost any conclusion.
It’s a way of making up data.”
Mr. Groves says he has a docu-
ment which he believes demonstrates
how meta-analysis can be “manipulated”
introduced”

The problem with all this is that
it is not necessarily true. It is
possible to do a meta-analysis
properly, but it requires a great
deal of care and attention to detail.
It also requires an understanding
of the limitations of the technique.

Fallacies are logical fallacies. They are errors in reasoning that can lead to false conclusions. In medical matters, fallacies can be fatal.

The most common fallacy is the appeal to authority. This is the belief that something must be true because it is said by an expert. For example, a doctor might say that a particular treatment is effective simply because they are a doctor. But just because someone is an expert does not mean that they are always right.

Another common fallacy is the argument from ignorance. This is the belief that something must be false because it has not been proven true. For example, a person might say that there is no evidence that vaccines cause autism, therefore vaccines must be safe. But just because something has not been proven does not mean that it is necessarily false.

A third common fallacy is the slippery slope argument. This is the belief that if one thing happens, then a series of other things will inevitably follow. For example, a person might say that if we legalize marijuana, then everyone will start using heroin. But just because one thing leads to another does not mean that it is inevitable.

Fallacies can be dangerous in medical matters because they can lead to false conclusions about what treatments are effective and what risks are acceptable. It is important to be aware of fallacies and to think critically about the information we receive from doctors and other healthcare professionals.



