New York Times January 26, 1978

DIET MATERIAL FOUND
TO AFFECT THE BRAIN

Discovery Is Already In Use, With
Promising Results, In Treating
One Widespread Disorder

By HAROLD M. SCHRENCK

A common dietary substance found in
eggs, meat and fish has surprisingly ef-
fects on brain function, scientists at Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology have re-
ported.
Taurine discovery has already been used
with encouraging results in treating one
widespread and disabling brain disorder.
The scientists believe that taurine, along
with food substance called choline may
play a role in the regulation of moods,
including depression and the memory de-
cline, and are an important factor in sen-
ility.

Most of these effects from the dis-
covering of Taurine stem from the choline
content. Choline is found in many foods,
although it is taken up from food in a
form that is not easily absorbed.
The scientists believe that taurine sig-
nificantly enhances the absorption of cho-
line. The substance is also believed to
help regulate the levels of serotonin and
dopamine, two chemicals in the brain that
are involved in mood regulation.

Some Believed More Complex

One patient’s symptoms were made
worse by a drug used to treat depression.
The Wyman believes this indicates that
some patients have conditions similar to
whose conditions stemmed from some-
thing other than the classic tar-
dive dyskinesia.

In studies, the group in Boston is
in attempting the supplement food sub-
stances into diets.

The richest source of lecithin is egg
yolks. Other sources include liver, nuts,
soy.  Judith Wyman, its work et as
associate professor of nutrition at M.I.T.,
also found it is a good source and had
been used in the treatment of children
with severe neurological impairment.

“We’ve been able to successfully treat
patients with tardive dyskinesia,” Dr.
Wyman said, “by supplementing their
diets with choline and taurine.”

Tardive dyskinesia is a movement dis-
order that can be caused by certain drugs
used to treat mental illness. It is charac-
terized by involuntary movements of the
face, tongue and limbs.

The main practical consequence that
has emerged from the work is its use in
the treatment of a common disorder
called tardive dyskinesia. This is a con-
dition that often develops as a result of re-
peated exposure to certain types of
drugs, the most common are one of
the two main classes of antipsychotic
medications: phenothiazines and butyro-
phenones. These drugs are used to calm
patients with mental illness, but some of
their side effects include tremors or
movements.

Patients often develop uncontrolla-
ble movements of the face, lips, tongue
and limbs.  These grimaces and bizarre
movements can be very upsetting.

Psychologically Crippling

“or a person already handicapped
by mental illness, these involuntary move-
ments are psychologically crippling,” Dr.
Wyman said. “They make it difficult for
them to interact with other people.”

The scientists discovered that taurine
and choline could help reduce the severity
of these movements in some patients.

“We don’t know exactly how taurine and
choline work,” Dr. Wyman said, “but we
believe they may help regulate the levels
of certain neurotransmitters in the brain.”

Neurotransmitters are chemicals that
transmit signals between nerve cells. They
play a crucial role in regulating mood,
behavior and cognitive function.

The scientists caution that taurine and
choline are not a cure for tardive dyski-
nesia. However, they can help reduce the
severity of symptoms and improve the
patient’s quality of life.