7/23/95 (11E)

Transplant of rat leg at UCI
offers promise for humans

Advances in merging composite tissue
could aid burn and car accident victims

BY PHIL SNIDERMAN

UCI—Researchers have reported a success
created in transplanting rat legs, a pro-
cess that may hold promise for composite tissue transplants in
humans.
Composite tissue transplants in-
volve skin, muscle, bone, blood
vessels and nerves. Advances in such
transplants could aid victims of
burns, crush injuries, car accidents
and auto accidents.
Results of the transplant study
were released today by researchers who
said that the transplanted legs sur-
vived for six months without the continued
use of an immunosuppressant drug.

Principal investigators in the trans-
plant project were Kirby B. Black and
Charles W. Hewitt, co-directors of
the Tissue Engineering and Regenera-
tion Research Laboratory at UCI.
Other researchers involved were Dr.
David R. Irvine, chief of plastic sur-
gery and director of the burn unit
at UCI Medical Center.

Findings of the study, funded by
The National Institutes of Health
and the California Institute for Med-
ical Research, will be published in
the July 28 issue of “Science.”
Cyclosporine allows the body to
protect itself against infection, but
it also suppresses the immune
system involved in the rejection of
transplanted tissues. In humans, the
drug has been used to help prevent
rejection in kidney, bone marrow,
heart and pancreas transplants.

Black said the UCI experiments
determined that the drug could also
be useful in composite tissue transplants.
The tests also focused on how much
cyclosporine was needed and what
side effects the drug might have.
Researchers found that the
transplanted tissues could survive for
six months without the drug.

The transplanted rat legs showed
signs of normal muscle and
nerve activity, but the limbs did not
function completely—the rats could
not walk normally on the transplanted
legs—revealing the complexity of
tissues required for such movement.

Black said that three-year-old rats
underwent some transplant as they
were young enough to adapt to the
new legs. “We’re hopeful that we can
improve the function of these trans-
plants,” Black said. “The ultimate goal
is to be able to replace limbs lost due
to trauma or disease.”

Black is a professor of surgery and
physiology, while Hewitt is an asso-
ciate professor of surgery. Irvine is
a clinical professor of surgery.



(Photo by Don Trenary)
—A rat with a transplanted leg is shown at UCI.