Letters to the Editor

On Ulcer Therapy
Sir, I read the article on “Comparative Versions in Ulcer Therapy” (N Engl J Med 293:1165, 1985) with interest.

Some years ago, I discarded the theory of hyperacidity as the cause for the benign duodenal or gastric ulcer and decided that the patient’s smoking habits were the primary factor.
Benign duodenal or gastric ulcer is a disease of smokers.

In fact, I have had many patients come to me with recurrent ulcers having been treated with other means without success. We healed their ulcers within a few weeks when they stopped smoking.

I have also had many other patients who did not stop smoking and who had recurrences, although they were on diet and took antacids.

As a result of this experience, for the past 20 years I have refused to treat ulcer patients unless they would give up smoking upon my warranty.

M. JOSIP MILANOVIC, M.D.
Institute for Digestive Diseases,
Clinical Hospital Centre Zagreb,
Božidar Adžija 18, 41000 Zagreb, Yugoslavia

Sir, I am writing to comment on the article “Cigarette Smoking and Peptic Ulcers” (N Engl J Med 293:1165, 1985). The authors’ conclusion that “cigarette smoking may have a protective effect against duodenal ulcers” is not supported by their data.

I have been studying peptic ulcer disease for 40 years and have observed that cigarette smoking is the most important factor in the development of gastric and duodenal ulcers. I am surprised that the authors did not mention this fact. It seems to me that they were looking for something that was not there, and they came up with a conclusion that is contrary to clinical experience.

I agree that there are many ideas put forth about medication, diet, and rest, but I was greatly disappointed that no one mentioned cigarette smoking on peptic ulcers.

I have been in general practice for 41 years in the western part of Czechoslovakia, and although I haven’t kept records, I have come to some very firm conclusions about the relation-ship between smoking and ulcers.

In fact, I have had many patients come to me with recurrent ulcers having been treated with other means without success. We healed their ulcers within a few weeks when they stopped smoking. I have also had many other patients who did not stop smoking and who had recurrences, although they were on diet and took antacids.

As a result of this experience, for the past 20 years I have refused to treat ulcer patients unless they would give up smoking upon my warranty.

JOSEF JELINEK
M.D.
Ostrava, Czechoslovakia

Sir, I am writing to bring to mind my critical evaluation of the subject of premature graying of hair (see Der Haut und Geschlechtsheilkunde, 1963, Vol. 48, No. 21, pp. 1221), edited by J. Jadassohn and published by Julius Springer Verlag in Berlin. The article in that collection was titled “Pathological Pigmentation of the Skin and Hair” in Internal Medicine, Neurology, and Psychiatry.

Premature graying of the hair is genetically determined. But there is also evidence that it, or premature depigmentation of hair, can result from continued severe stress. However, as I am reporting the views of Dr. Joseph P. Jellinek, who has recently been noting of hair—e.g., overnight or in days—is still disputed as it was 40 years ago, largely because it is very complete.

I saw two cases of partial, one complete, one cardinal of relatively rapid development in young soldiers during the war. It is my belief that they occurred as a consequence of the individuals were under severe stress; they were Jewish, and they were actively hiding, 1-2 years before the Nazi occupation.

Joseph Jellinek, M.D.
Buffalo, N.Y.



