Local News and Features
Home Improvement
World of Animals
Classified

Sunday, April 23, 1978

LIVING

WESTCHESTER-FAIRFIELD

Firemen fight burns with facility

BY JOHN MANALAZZO

Jack Williams, a New Rochelle fireman, looked out at a burning building under construction and said: “It’s like looking at $3 million in flames.”

The building, the Westchester Convalescent Center, is scheduled to open in June. It will house 200 elderly and semi-invalid patients.

“We’ve come a long way,” Williams said. “This hospital is going to be a real asset to this community.”

The center is being built on land formerly occupied by the old Westchester Ice Arena, which was demolished last year. The new facility will offer physical rehabilitation, occupational therapy and other services.

Construction began in early 1977 and is expected to be completed in late May.

“We’re proud of what we’ve done,” said county fire safety inspector Curt Judge, who has been working closely with the Westchester Convalescent Center project. “It's a beautiful facility.”

Judge added that the center will alleviate some of the pressure on existing hospitals in the area.

“There’s a real need for this type of institution in Westchester,” he said.

Williams could not estimate how much the golf tournament would raise for the facility. The top two finishers are expected to be professional golfers.

The company that has the contract for the landscaping is “Green Thumb” Landscaping, owned by Jack Williams.

“We’ve come a long way,” Williams said. “It's been a lot of work done on this medical center.”

The Westchester Medical Center and St. John’s Hospital are nearby. The new facility will offer a wider range of surgery; the Curt Judge Surgical Associates is located next to the building.

match the golf foursomes would raise for the facility. The top two finishers are expected to be professional golfers.

“We’re extremely proud of members of the Westchester Fire Department who were instrumental in making this a reality,” said Westchester Supervisor William Wislow. “It's going to be a hospital, official said. The cost to build is $3 million.”

Westchester County Executive B. Harrison Dupont and New Rochelle Mayor Robert J. Flynn appeared locked at arms at a sportsman’s dinner.



80734652