DAILY NEWS

Local News and Futures
Home Improvement
World of Announcments
Classified

Sunday, April 23, 1978

WESTCHESTER-FAIRFIELD LIVING

Firemen fight burns with facility

BY JOHN RANDAZZO

Jack Williams, a New Rochelle volunteer fireman, is shown here as he receives a blanket from another fireman at the site of the new Westchester Medical Center burn facility in Valhalla. The $13 million burn unit will be completed in early 1980 and will serve all of Westchester and surrounding areas.

Williams suffered minor burns while fighting a fire last week, but was treated and released. He is one of many volunteer firefighters who will benefit from the new facility.

“We’re very proud to have this facility,” said Westchester County Executive William F. Cahill at Friday’s ground-breaking ceremony. “It’s going to be a tremendous asset to our county.”

The burn unit, located on the grounds of Westchester Medical Center, is being constructed by Consigli Construction Co. of Sleepy Hollow and will include 20 beds for adult patients and 10 beds for children. It will also have classrooms for training medical personnel.

Cahill said the facility will provide “state-of-the-art” care for burn victims. He added that it will be a “lifesaver” for many people in Westchester.

“This is something we’ve needed for a long time,” Cahill said. “We’re very fortunate to have it.”

Jack Williams (above)

“We’ve come a long way,” said Dr. Robert J. Buckman, director of the Westchester Medical Center burn unit and chief of surgery. Cahill joined Buckman in turning the ceremonial first spade of dirt at the ceremony.

Completion is expected in early 1980. The facility will serve burns ranging from minor to critical injuries.

“We’re all looking forward to it,” said John H. Conroy, president of the Westchester County Firemen's Association. “It’s going to be a great help to us.”

The burn unit is being funded with $13 million in county bonds and $500,000 in private donations.

“We still need more money,” said Cahill. “We hope that people will contribute so we can provide the best possible care for burn victims.”

much the golf course would raise for the project. However, some 115 women golfers were on hand to tee off to start the fund-raising effort.

The event was held at the Westchester Country Club, with proceeds going to benefit the new facility. Cahill said he hopes the golf tournament will provide a significant boost to the fundraising campaign.

“We’re certainly very happy to have this opportunity,” Cahill said. “It’s a wonderful way to support such an important cause.”

Westchester County Executive Alfred Del Biondo also attended the ceremony.

Del Biondo said he could not estimate how many burn victims the facility will treat per year, a hospital of its kind.



80734650

For the race the other day Michael DeMarco won by two strokes. 
He was followed by John O’Malley and from third place came Robert J. Buckman. 
“We’ve certainly come a long way,” Williams said. 

At first, the unit will operate with 10 beds. The facility is expected to operate the facility for more than 50 million dollars a year, a hospital of its kind.



Jay 23 to 29 the Landlord Co. will