Israel May Be Up Next in Tobacco Wars

U.S. Lawyers Offer Assistance Suing Manufacturers Overseas

By AMY DOCKSER MARKS
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal

TEL AVIV—In the U.S., the legal battle
over tobacco is winding down. In Israel, it’s just
beginning.

The Israeli Health Ministry says that it
plans to file a 27 billion shekel ($1.5 billion)
lawsuit against major U.S. cigarette and
foreign tobacco manufacturers to help pay
for the nation's costs of treating
smokers.

The lawsuit, announced Friday be-
tween 40 states and Puerto Rico and the
tobacco companies effectively ends similar
suits in the U.S., is a sharp turn from the
U.S. experience. While a settlement with
the U.S. complicates a parallel open
in Israel, where tobacco manufacturers
have aggressively marketed their products.

Israel’s income, in some measure, is a
product of sales to this point. With a popula-
tion of 6 million, Israel has a high per capita
consumption. Although it's notiable that
cigarette prices are higher than in the U.S.,
the nation’s smoking rate remains high at
54%, according to government statistics.

“They’ve been very aggressive here,” says
Dr. Yoram Blachman, director of the Israeli
Society for Public Health and a leading ad-
vocate for anti-smoking measures. “They
know that Israel is a market with a high rate
of smoking.”

The lawsuit will be filed in Tel Aviv Dis-
trict Court, says Shlomo Mualem, an attor-
ney representing the Israeli Health Ministry.
He says the ministry has been gathering evi-
dence for years and that it is “very strong.”

“We have documents showing how they
targeted Israel,” Mr. Mualem says. “They
knew about the dangers of smoking, but they
continued to market their products here.”

The Israeli Health Ministry has hired a
team of U.S. lawyers to assist in preparing
legal team to assess the legal theories
involved in the case and analyzing differ-
ent strategies to pursue, says Eric J.
Greenberg, a partner at Mr. Greenberg
& Milfer.

Michael Ciresi, a partner at Robins
Kaplan Miller & Ciresi, the Minneapolis
law firm that represents the U.S. states,
has been advising General’s office, says the
Israeli Health Ministry. A number of law-
yers in foreign countries, including in
Israel, are involved, but “cooperation can
run the ‘gun,’” said
Mr. Ciresi. “The more people you get
together, the firm’s role in this respect
hasn't yet been determined,” he said.

This kind of assistance is valuable for the
Israeli suit, contends Mr. Hausner, the
lawyer.

The settlement ‘gave
a familiar lawsuit in Israel’

“They know how to
handle these cases,”
says Yoram Tur-Sinai, a Tel Aviv lawyer
who has been advising the Israeli Health
Ministry on the case. “They have experi-
ence with depositions and discovery.”

The U.S. settlement, which includes a
ban on advertising cigarettes in vending ma-
chines and restrictions on marketing to min-
ors, also complicates matters for Israel. The
settlement prohibits the states from suing
tobacco companies over certain claims, but
it doesn’t prevent foreign countries from do-
ing so.

However, some legal experts say that
the U.S. settlement could make it more dif-
ficult to win a similar lawsuit in Israel.
“The fact that the U.S. states settled their
cases will be used by the tobacco compa-
nies to argue that there is no merit to Is-
rael’s claims,” says David Roth, an attor-
ney specializing in international litigation.

Israel has a history of anti-smoking regu-
lations. In 1959, Israel banned cigarette ad-
vertising on commercial flights.

The number of Israelis who smoke has
dropped from 45% in 1970 to 27%, but the
nation’s smoking rate remains high. A law
requiring warning sections in builder’s
manuals failing to provide such warns, Israelis
are often exposed to cigarette advertising
appearing signs posted in public build-
ings. Efforts to ban tobacco advertising
in print media failed to pass in
1983, largely due to lobbying by the
tobacco and newspaper companies.

One sign of how far Israel still has to go
is that until 1984, Israeli law permitted
a low banning smoking in workplaces except
for designated areas. Former Prime
Minister Yitzhak Rabin, says
Mr. Tur-Sinai, was a strong opponent of
the refused to sign into law, saying as a
matter of principle he would not be the one
who’s best known for choking the bill
through. Mr. Rabin’s successor, Shimon
Peres, signed the legislation into law
after meeting with activists groups and
cabinet ministers.

The Israeli Health Ministry is also con-
sidering suing tobacco companies over the
cost of treating cancer and other diseases
caused by smoking. The ministry estimates
that Israel spends 2 billion shekels a year on
treating these illnesses.

“We want to hold the tobacco compa-
nies accountable for the damage they have
done to our nation,” says Mr. Mualem. “They
have profited from selling a product that is
harmful to public health.”



all street journal
June 23, 1997