Tobacco industry sue EPA

5-25-89
The Associated Press

WINSTON-SALEM - A federal judge has ruled that the tobacco industry has legal grounds to pursue a lawsuit against the Environmental Protection Agency over an agency report linking secondhand tobacco smoke can cause cancer.

U.S. District Judge N. Sanders on Tuesday denied the EPA’s motion to dismiss the suit in Wake County Superior Court. The lawsuit plaintiffs allege that the EPA failed to consider economic losses as a result of the report and therefore can sue the agency for those losses, the judge said.

“We are pleased with this decision,” said James Donahue, a senior vice president and deputy general counsel for R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. “The court has now recognized that the tobacco industry has been directly and negatively impacted by this report.”

The tobacco industry has maintained that the EPA excluded data concerning the effects of secondhand smoke and cancer. EPA officials on Wednesday

again said they stand behind their report.

“We’ve been hearing this for years,” said EPA spokesman Dave Ryan in a telephone interview from Washington. “Our position is that secondhand smoke can cause cancer.”

The tobacco industry wants the report withdrawn, which may require restrictions enacted based on the EPA's report.



Tobacco groups can sue
EPA for report, judge says

Tobacco companies have legal standing to sue the Environmental Protection Agency over a report that found second-hand smoke to cause cancer, a federal judge ruled Wednesday.

U.S. District Court Judge William Osteen said the plaintiffs, including several tobacco companies and groups representing tobacco farmers, have standing to sue the EPA for its 1986 report, which concluded secondhand smoke is a cancer-causing agent.

The EPA had asked U.S. District Court in Wake County to dismiss the lawsuit over details concerning the agency’s conclusions about second-hand smoke and 3,000 lung cancer deaths each year.

The court also ordered Osteen to dismiss the lawsuit against R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., filed by J.R. Smith of Raleigh, who claims he developed lung cancer as a result of secondhand smoke. The judge said Smith failed to show that his illness was caused by secondhand smoke.

88013530

88501360