June 2, 1974

Earl Butz Facing Suit
By J. R. Mccullough
A suit has been filed in U.S. District Court here seeking to prevent Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz from implementing a new farm program.
The suit was filed by the Southern Farmers Legal Services Fund and names as defendants Butz, Assistant Secretary for Production John Crowder and Agricultural Secretary J. Clark Hoover.
The plaintiff, James A. Overton of Raleigh, alleges that the new farm program violates the Fifth Amendment rights of farmers in North Carolina.
The plan requires farmers to accept a “marketing quota” which limits the amount of tobacco they can grow.

Feb. 10, 1975

Judge Asked To Halt Efforts
By Attorneys To Kill Suit

By J. R. Mccullough
FEB. 9 - A judge has been asked to halt efforts by state officials to kill a suit filed against Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz.
The suit, filed by the Southern Farmers Legal Services Fund, alleges that Butz’s new farm program violates the Fifth Amendment rights of farmers in North Carolina.
Florence attorney J.J. Adams, representing the fund, asked U.S. District Judge Henry Johnston to deny a motion filed last week by State Attorney General Bruce McKnight.
McKnight is seeking to intervene in the suit and asks that it be dismissed. He contends that the state has a right to defend its interests in the case.
Adams argued that McKnight’s intervention would only delay the proceedings and that the state's interest is already being represented by Butz, who is defending the suit.
“The state’s interest is not separate from the federal government’s interest,” Adams said. “If we allow the state to intervene, it will simply prolong this matter.”
Certain defendants” to be held
in contempt of court for failure to
appear for the deposition of James
H. Overman Jr., a Raleigh attorney.
James Olive of Columbia, representing the State Farm Bureau, also asked that the motion be denied.
Adams was opposed by Assistant U.S. Attorney John H. McNeill, who said that McKnight’s intervention would allow the state to present its side of the case. “It is important for the court to hear from all parties involved,” McNeill said.
Johnston took the matter under advisement and said he would rule on it soon. He warned both sides that he would not tolerate any further delays in the proceedings. “This is a serious matter, and I expect everyone to cooperate,” Johnston said.



The suit alleges that Butz’s plan will destroy the family farm system in North Carolina. It seeks an injunction to prevent Butz from implementing the program.
The State Farm Bureau has filed a motion to intervene as a defendant in the suit. The bureau contends that it represents the interests of thousands of farmers in the state and should have the opportunity to present its side of the case.
McNeill said that the bureau’s intervention is necessary to ensure that all interested parties are heard. “The Farm Bureau has a significant interest in this matter, and it deserves to be heard,” he said.
Johnston agreed with McNeill and said that the bureau should be allowed to intervene. He set a hearing for next week to determine the scope of the bureau’s participation in the case.



Ballantine attorneys




910118086