PAGE 11
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1988

THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

© 1988 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LAW 9/26/8

Florida Discovery Way
To Keep Lawyers Quiet?

F FLORIDA LAWYERS are facing a serious threat to their ability to pursue lawsuits: consider a state constitutional amendment that would severely limit damages for such non-comp loss as pain and suffering. The measure is the result of lawyers who crafted an unusual strategy: they’re keeping quiet.

Lawyers who usually spend thousands of dollars each week advertising their personal injury cases are canceling TV ads until after the Nov. 8 election. So it is Florida Bar's attempt at a $500,000 advertising campaign.

The proposed constitutional amendment would place a $100,-
000 cap on damages for non-eco-
nomic compensation for economic
loss. The measure would eliminate
a rich source of income for law-
yers who take cases on a contingen-
cy basis, and it represents a percentage of the damages award.
“We don’t want to appear to be orchestrating the real issue,” says attorney David Rody. “If attorneys don't fight, we predict the proposition will pass.”

The strategy by lawyers is an attempt to keep the public from considering the amendment.

Prison Latest Site
For Smoking Debate

THE BATTLE over smokers’ rights has spilled over into an unlikely arena: a New Hampshire prison.

The question is whether in-
mates who don't smoke have a constitutional right not to share prison cells with smokers. And it could be resolved in a civil suit filed on behalf of a former prison inmate, Clifford Avery.

Mr. Avery, who was recently paroled from prison, claimed in a lawsuit that being forced smok-
ing amounted to cruel and unusual punishment and violated his rights under the Eighth and Fourteenth amendments to the U.S. Constitu-
tion.

U.S. District Judge Shane De-
vine of Concord, N.H., has agreed to consider the federal constitutional issues. Judge De-
vine also allowed 19 other inmates in the state prison system to join Mr. Avery in the suit.

Assistant Attorney General A. Kent Moran is representing the state prison officials. He’s defending the policy that allows smokers and non-smokers to share cells, saying it's a matter of prison management. The case arises from a written smok-
ing policy for New Hampshire prisons.

Sam Muehsblia/AP
