Feb. 19 ‘95 71:06

KMNICA FAX 286

P. 1

Smoke-free—
and less

There has been much diploma and contrivance surrounding the recent decision of restaurant smoking ban instituted by the Northampton Board of Health. To dismiss the point that it reflects a significant change in public attitudes is to ignore the fact that we were wrong about its immediate effect on business. North Star Restaurant

On Sunday, January 22, the North Star
Restaurant will officially transfer from current ownership. While this has still
been going on for some time, it remains work. A very lucky minority will retain
the building and a few of us will mourn the recession of a rare ‘80s and early ‘90s
hangout. The question is: Will it be forced to close?

Why indeed? Throughout the city full of
smokers, why did this one restaurant have
such trouble? The answer, in these days
of smoking ban news front, is that the time
has come for a change. It’s not just that
the reason is smoking—the reason is his
own. He has been trying to sell it for 15
years.

The North Star Restaurant is a relic.
It is a place where people could be themselves
in a way they couldn't anywhere else.
It was a refuge from the world, a place
where you could sit and read or talk or
just be. It was a place that was real.

But it’s gone now. And we are left with
the question of what to do next. Do we
try to recreate it? Or do we let it go?

are the health risk to persons and the health
risk to the environment. The Board of Health has decided, but the Board of Health has failed
to consider that the public is not ready
when there are so customers and the staff
who smoke. It’s a matter of intelligence.
We are intelligent and educated people who
can make our own decisions. We don't need
the Board to tell us in North Star rather than
letting us decide for ourselves.

Now we longer have that choice.

The Board of Health has said that the
day after Mayor Scott’s “State of the City”
address, it would hold a hearing on the issue
of the necessity of economic payouts and
the closing of a long-standing Northampton
institution. The Board of Health is not in violation of economic growth? Does the Board
of Health consider itself to be an expert on
public sentiment? We are concerned to see
how this will affect our community. We
look back, that discussion of this knowing to
those questions is “No.”

Bill Brown, Northampton; Sally
Jean Brown, Easthampton; Lou Provenzano,
Florence; Betty Muldoon, Hatfield;
Margaret Schappacher, Deerfield; John
Schwartz, Hadley; Lauren Walworth,
Amherst; Paul W. Young

Letters Policy

90-word limit. We reserve the right to edit
for length and clarity. All letters must be
signed and include a return address.



Bill—
pretty interesting