STATE LINE
SPECIAL REPORT
INDIANA

THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE
STATE ACTIVITIES DIVISION

April 24, 1990

STATE AND LOCAL
TOBACCO VENDING MACHINE RESTRICTIONS

In the late 1980’s the tobacco industry witnessed a substantial increase in the introduction of state and local legislation to restrict or ban tobacco sales through vending machines. Some of these proposals began in response to a 1986 model bill developed by the American Medical Association, which called for a ban on cigarette sales through vending machines. Policies adopted by the U.S. Conference of Mayors in 1987, to “discourage the sale of tobacco by vending machines,” and by the National Association of Counties in 1988, "strengthening regulation and enforcement of activities which make tobacco use accessible to minors such...placement of vending machines," also helped to spawn the anti-tobacco movement against vending machine sales.

The key argument used by those attempting to ban tobacco vending machine sales is that the machines are not supervised, allowing minors easy access to cigarettes. Contrary to such claims, however, are national survey results compiled by the National Automatic Merchandising Association (NAMA). In 1986, NAMA found that 80 percent of all cigarette vending machines are located in places not frequented by minors. Subsequent surveys conducted by the vending industry, such as a 1988 Michigan survey that showed 95.6 percent of cigarette vending machines are located in places where minors are not allowed or are well supervised, support NAMA’s findings. Furthermore, a Response Research study of teenage smokers conducted during June/July 1989, found that only 9 percent purchased cigarettes from vending machines.

Many state and local tobacco vending machine restrictions limit machines to locations that are under adult supervision or not accessible to minors, or prohibit the sale of cigarettes in government buildings. In 1989 and 1990 vending machines have become a direct target of the anti-tobacco movement. This has generated a substantial increase in proposals to ban or restrict tobacco vending machines at both the state and local levels.

Laws   960406

Alaska Requires tobacco vending machines to be located in places 1988 inaccessible to persons under age 19, or to be under adult supervision.
Delaware  Executive order prohibits the sale of tobacco products on 1983 state property by 1/1/90.
Restricts tobacco vending machines to places inaccessible 1990 to minors.
Indiana Restricts tobacco vending machine sales to workplaces or where 1989 minors are not allowed, unless it’s operated by an adult.

"IT IS NOT ISTREET LEGAL TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS."