LUCE-SOUTHWEST
PRESS CLIPPING BUREAU
NEW YORK, N.Y.

TOPEKA, KAN.

GREENSBORO, N.C. RECORD
JUN 8 1954 c

But Cigar Shares Co Up

Cigarette Shares Decline
On Cancer Society

By Earl Ubell In the report, the statisticians
cigarette manufacturers’ stocks said that cigar or pipe smoking
market, apparently in a reaction declined yesterday in a sharp decline, has less effect on
to Monday's announcement by the American Cancer The rate of death as cigarettes.
Society regarding handling and-smoking research Committee’s scientific
and disease and cancer. “The report indicates that much studies have been done to find
more work needs to be done to get at the relationship out.
on a stock worth $2 a share. Dr. Little said the cancer
society's advance of publication
in cooperation with the
technical work of the Tobacco
Industry Research Committee
and its Scientific Advisory
Board “is behind the ‘great
moond and he paid his respects.
Dr. Little said, "Discussion and
comment on their data, how-
ever, must be held back even
at this time.” He further said
all work has been analyzed and
the report is being prepared for
publication.

The shares of several cigarette
stocks suffered a sharp decline
Monday following the release of
the American Cancer Society’s
report on smoking and cancer.
The report, which was based on
studies conducted by the Tobacco
Industry Research Committee,
indicated that there is no direct
relationship between smoking and
cancer.

Facing The Possibilities

Dr. Clarence Little, former presi-
dent of the Rockefeller Foundation
and State health officer for Minne-
sota, said in a recent interview
with the tobacco companies to direct study
of the relationship between smoking
between the smoking of cigarettes and
cancer have not been proven. As Dr. Lit-
tle pointed out, “The studies are con-
minded with the manner of life of those
who smoke.” He added that it is possible
but there is still reason for doubt.

“It is difficult to make a definite ex-
planation,” Dr. Little said, “but I am
convinced that smoking has some effect
on health and that this effect is not
necessarily cancer.” He added that the
studies have been conducted with great
care and that the results are reliable.

Dr. Little said that he has no personal
interest in the tobacco industry but that
he believes it is important to study the
effects of smoking on health. He added
that he hopes that the studies will lead to
a better understanding of the relationship
between smoking and cancer.

The American Cancer Society has an-
nounced that it will continue to support
research into the causes of cancer. The
society said that it is particularly inter-
ested in studying the effects of smoking
on health. It added that it hopes that the
studies will lead to a better understanding
of the relationship between smoking and
cancer.

The Tobacco Institute, which repre-
sents the major cigarette manufacturers,
said that it is pleased with the American
Cancer Society’s report on smoking and
cancer. The institute said that the re-
port confirms what the tobacco industry
has always believed: that there is no di-
rect relationship between smoking and
cancer.

The Tobacco Institute added that it will
continue to support research into the
causes of cancer. It said that it hopes
that the studies will lead to a better un-
derstanding of the relationship between
smoking and cancer.



