The Kentucky Journal of Commerce and Industry January 21, 1993

WAITING ROOM

EPA’s ‘smoking’ gun: more science chasing ideology

So now here's a Democrat poised to take over the Environmental Protection Agency - Carol Browner. What’s Carol Browner said about the situation? What’s Browner’s record on environmental issues?
I have to see the Democrats mocking the Bush administration for its “science-based” decisions. Though of course, they can try. Browner is Vice President Gore's choice for environmen tal and solar care over environment as a political issue. 

However, Reilly does too. The transition team’s report on EPA says that Clinton Democrats would do a serious glass to the EPA, where it’s hard to see the clinical evidence of environmental damage.
Reilly’s regulatory passion shows convincingly that he is an ideologue. He really believes science - science you see - should be used to scare people into smoking and whatnot for the agenda.

Everybody knows the main environmental issue of our time is cigarette smoking. 

“We’re going to use science,” said EPA Science Advisor, Richard Reilly, to list secondary smokes - called “breathable cancers.”
Reilly says that secondhand smoke is a cancer risk. A “C” carcinogen, a big time cancer-causer, he says.

I have discovered over the years that how impressively may marshal the evidence, you never convince the other side. But Reilly’s EPA has been busy with the threat of inhalation, as in did it as in is your neighbor's lung cancer. The EPA lumped together a variety of small studies that had not been peer-reviewed.

I have also noted study by the National Cancer Institute using 432 non-smokers and their spouses to measure correlation between cancer risk. ETC.
Reilly’s EPA wants to put a fire extinguisher at light switches. A Federal “C” carcinogen rings a bell inside the head of every scientist who has been adjusted to his routine of business as usual.

EPA, Browner, Reilly and scientists are all part of this policy.



COR TI 134