Eugene, OR
Laine Co.)
(Reprinted from
The Daily Emerald
Vol. 69, No. 81
Nov. 5, 1990

NOV. 1 5 1990

Group holds up
indoor air rules

By The Associated Press - 4/3

An anti-smoking group has blocked proposed national ventilation standards, arguing that they would not protect office workers against the toxic effects of secondhand smoke.

A lawyer for the group charged in an appeal to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) that the standards reflected the aims of the tobacco industry and failed to address the need to reduce ventilation requirements in buildings where smoking is allowed.

“The tobacco industry must succeed in this effort,” said Susan Daynard, a lawyer with Baum Hedlund Bastick & Harlov in Boston. “They’re trying to use environmental concerns as cover for their efforts to weaken standards.”

ANSI will not allow systems sending air into ventilation systems unless properly maintained, tobacco smoke is not a problem.

“If they had considered the effects of secondhand smoke when they developed the standards, A.P.I. would have objected,” Daynard said.

Addition of the standards would have enabled employers to define “adequate” ventilation and avoid providing more fresh air to office workers, she charged. The proposed standards were developed by a committee including representatives of the tobacco industry, heating and air conditioning manufacturers, and building owners.

“They’re trying to make it so that they can say ‘we’ve met the standard,’ when in fact they haven’t,” Daynard said.

On Monday, the American National Standards Institute, a private group that establishes a wide range of rules, upheld the appeal and refused to approve the proposed ventilation standards.

The claim that the standards would avoid adverse health effects was found “not substantiated” by the institute said in a letter to Daynard.

The decision to uphold the appeal is one of the most significant victories in a battle against tobacco smoke, said Daynard.

“It’s an interesting glimpse into a hidden government which nobody elected, but nevertheless makes decisions that affect how we live, the air we breathe,” she said.

The standards were written by a committee including representatives of the American Society dealing, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers in North Carolina.

The chairman of the committee, John Johnson, Honeywell engineer in Minneapolis, declined to comment.

“They’re great at all interested,” Daynard said.

The proposed standards by ANSI would have allowed employers to define “adequate” ventilation and avoid providing more fresh air to office workers. The standards were developed by a committee including representatives of the tobacco industry, heating and air conditioning manufacturers, and building owners.