The Lancet (1995;346:117-123

Health effects of passive smoking : 5 Series editors: J R Britton, S T Weiss

Parental smoking and allergic sensitisation in children

David P Strachan, Derek G Cook

Abstract — A systematic review was conducted of the effects of parental smok-
ing on IgE levels, skin prick tests,
prick positivity, and allergic rhinitis or
asthma in children. Studies were excluded
in order to distinguish more clearly the
effect of passive smoking from exposure al-
lergic sensitisation.
Methods — Thirty six relevant publications
were identified after searching 692
articles selected by electronic search of
Medline and Embase using keywords
relevant to passive smoking in
children. The search was completed in April
1997 and identify studies of type in
which included skin prick tests, 10
described asthma or wheezing, quan-
tative meta-analysis was possible only for
skin prick test positivity.
Results — Several large studies failed to
demonstrate any association between pa-
rental smoking and concentrations of total
IgE in children. However, a significant as-
sociation was found between parental smok-
ing and skin prick test positivity for com-
mon allergens. The risk of allergic sensiti-
sation was increased by approximately 25%
in children of smokers compared with non-
smokers. This effect was most marked in
children who were breastfed for less than
three months.
Conclusion — Parental smoking is associ-
ated with an elevated risk of allergic
sensitisation to common environmental
allergens.¹ The suggestion that passive ex-
posure to tobacco smoke may influence al-
lergic sensitisation in children was first made
in 1984, and several studies have investigated the relationship of parental
smoking to IgE concentrations, skin prick tests,
total and allergy-specific IgE levels in
childhood, positive skin reactions to com-
mon allergens, and asthma or wheezing. This
paper systematically reviews the evidence re-
lating parental smoking to allergic sensiti-
rinitis. The larger number of studies relating
parental smoking to the development of asthma
will be reviewed separately.

Methods
Published papers, letters and review articles
were selected by an electronic search of the
Medline and Embase databases using a
search strategy described in detail elsewhere².
The search was completed in April 1997 and
identified 692 articles. The following
keywords were used: ‘passive smoking’, ‘tobacco
smoke’, ‘environmental tobacco smoke’, ‘second-
hand smoke’, ‘children’, ‘infants’, ‘allergy’,
‘asthma’, ‘wheezing’, ‘skin prick tests’, ‘IgE’.
References of relevant papers were also
searched. Studies were included if they in-
cluded skin prick tests, 10 described asthma or
wheezing, and quantitative meta-analysis was
possible only for skin prick test positivity.

The main outcome measures were: (i) total IgE
concentrations; (ii) allergy-specific IgE con-
centrations; (iii) skin prick test reactivity to
common allergens; (iv) asthma or wheezing.
Data were extracted from each study on the
number of children exposed to parental smok-
ing, the number with elevated IgE levels,
positive skin prick tests, and asthma or
wheezing.

1.  Department of Epidemiology and Public Health,
    University College London, London WC1E 6DE,
    UK (D P Strachan PhD); and Department of
    Paediatrics, Royal Hospital for Sick Children,
    Edinburgh (D G Cook FRCP)

7548