OP/ED

Some states’ foolish strategy to try to pay their Medicaid bills

By John Birchard

A short note precedes of explanation. The federal government has long provided matching funds to states for Medicaid, the joint federal-state health insurance program for low-income people. In recent years, some states have tried to game this system by delaying payments to providers and then claiming those delayed payments as current expenses in order to maximize their share of federal funding.

This practice, which we’ll call “Medicaid bill shuffling,” is not only unethical but also unsustainable. It creates cash-flow problems for healthcare providers, who are often small businesses with tight margins. These providers may be forced to reduce services or even close down, limiting access to care for vulnerable populations.

The federal government has been cracking down on Medicaid bill shuffling, but the practice continues. States argue that they are simply managing their budgets responsibly, but this is a misleading characterization of what’s happening. They are essentially using healthcare providers as a source of short-term financing, and it’s time to put an end to it.

The Washington Times
TUESDAY, JULY 16, 1994/ PM.

The problem with Medicaid bill shuffling is that it creates a false impression of financial stability. States may appear to be in good shape financially, but they are actually relying on delayed payments to providers to make ends meet. This can lead to a situation where the state is unable to pay its bills when the time comes, which can have serious consequences for healthcare providers and patients alike.

For example, in one state, a hospital was forced to lay off employees because of delayed Medicaid payments. In another state, a clinic had to close its doors altogether. These are just two examples of the devastating impact that Medicaid bill shuffling can have on communities.

The federal government has a responsibility to ensure that states are using Medicaid funds appropriately. This means cracking down on Medicaid bill shuffling and holding states accountable for their actions. It also means providing states with the resources they need to manage their Medicaid programs effectively.

Some states argue that they don’t have enough money to pay their bills on time. But this is not an excuse for unethical behavior. States should be looking for ways to cut spending and increase revenue, rather than relying on delayed payments to providers.

Medicaid bill shuffling is a problem that needs to be addressed urgently. It’s hurting healthcare providers, limiting access to care, and creating a false impression of financial stability. The federal government must take action to put an end to this practice once and for all.

John Birchard is a senior fellow at the National Center for Public Policy Research.

T11730-1900