222ND STORY of Level 1 printed in FULL format. PAGE 48

Copyright 1994 The Baltimore Sun Company
The Sun (Baltimore)

May 29, 1994, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D
LENGTH: 2805 words

SERIES: SERIES -- TOBACCO’S RICE FALL -- THE GROWERS. First of four parts

HEADLINE: Farmers besieged by free in imports, drop in demand, corporate desertion

BYLINE: Ian Johnson, SUN STAFF WRITER

BODY:
CHASE CITY, Va. -- In the rolling, steamy farmlands of Southern Virginia, few farmers own the combines and harvesters that have come to dominate U.S. agriculture. Instead of vast fields sown and reaped by machines, the land here is punctuated by ponds, trees and rows of farm workers bending over the region’s lifeblood: tobacco.

Recently transplanted from greenhouses into the soil, the plants will require hundreds of hours of manual labor and thousands of dollars worth of fertilizer before they mature into a valuable cash crop.

By the time the costly process of harvesting, curing and packing the chocolate-brown leaves is complete, the small farmers who dominate the tobacco-growing industry will have earned a comfortable, middle-class wage.

Yet these farmers face unprecedented economic dislocation that could well change the character of large chunks of Virginia, Kentucky and North Carolina.

As U.S. tobacco manufacturers and international competition work together to squeeze the profitability out of tobacco farming, small tobacco growers are losing their one sure chance -- under current conditions, at least -- to remain independent and prosperous in an age of industrialized agriculture.

This is an oft-forgotten side to the great tobacco debates that have swept the country over the past decade.

A attention has focused on Washington’s attempts to stamp out smoking, a huge industry is in the midst of a painful -- and possibly terminal -- decline.

More specifically, the challenges facing tobacco and its overseers in Washington include:

* Future of many small communities in the Southeast that still rely on tobacco farming, while governments have made a concerted effort to discourage smoking. Their policies have ignored farmers’ and communities' needs.

T1752-1035