Businesses brace for impact
of state’s new tax package

Front Digest
47

GOVERNMENT | BY JESSICA NEWMAN
The new law changes
tax rates and credits

AUSTIN — Businesses across Texas are preparing for the impact of a sweeping new tax package approved by lawmakers last week. 

The legislation, House Bill 3, makes significant changes to the state’s franchise tax, property taxes, sales taxes and other levies. It also creates new credits and exemptions aimed at stimulating economic growth.

“This is a big deal,” said Ann Lee Fowler, an Austin-based tax attorney. “There are going to be winners and losers.”

The bill includes about $17 billion in tax cuts over the next two years. 

Here’s a breakdown of some key changes:

FRANCHISE TAX
The franchise tax is a business tax levied by the state on businesses operating in Texas. The new law lowers the margin for certain businesses, which could result in lower tax bills. It also increases the exemption amount for businesses with low gross receipts. 

PROPERTY TAXES
Homeowners will see property tax relief through increased homestead exemptions and limits on appraisal growth. Businesses that own property may also benefit from similar measures.

SALES TAXES
The law eliminates sales taxes on certain business equipment, such as machinery and computers. It also extends the expiration date for a sales tax exemption for professional sports teams.

OTHER CHANGES
The bill includes several other changes to state taxes, such as extending credits for renewable energy production and creating a new credit for data center construction.

TAX CUTS SPARK DEBATE
Among lawmakers and economists

82

The tax cuts have sparked debate among lawmakers and economists. Some argue that the cuts will stimulate economic growth and create jobs. Others worry that they will exacerbate the state’s budget deficit.

“We need to be careful about cutting taxes when we don’t have a clear plan for how to make up the lost revenue,” said State Rep. Jessica Farrar, D-Houston. “These tax cuts could lead to cuts in essential services.”

The bill was passed by the House and Senate with bipartisan support. Gov. Greg Abbott signed it into law last week.

“This is a historic moment for Texas,” Abbott said in a statement. “These tax cuts will make Texas an even more attractive place to do business and create jobs.”

Businesses are now working to understand how the new law will affect their operations. 

“We’re still analyzing the details of the bill,” said John Smith, CEO of Austin-based tech company Acme Corp. “But it looks like we could see some significant savings on our franchise tax bill.”

The changes will take effect Sept. 1.

Tax hike won't fund local tourism center

AUSTIN BUREAU CHIEF
A proposed sales tax increase to fund a new local tourism center has been rejected by the Texas Legislature.

House of Representatives
TNWL 0051782



