Copyright (c) 1989 The Washington Post

May 23, 1989, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: HEALTH; PAGE 29
LENGTH: 659 words
HEADLINE: Europeans Take Aim at Cigarettes;
Trade Ministers Find Worries Work to Their Advantage in Pushing for Warning Labels
BYLINE: Robin Herman, Special to The Washington Post
DATELINE: PARIS

BODY:
Warnings on cigarette packages may be minuscule, as in France, where pungent Gauloises carry the vague alert "Abuse is dangerous," in letters barely legible. Or warnings may be nonexistent, as in Italy, or simply belated, as in Greece, which added them to cigarette packages just three months ago.

Last week, however, more than two decades after the United States ordered health warnings on cigarette packages, the 13 countries of the European Community signaled that all that was about to change.

Taking their first united step against tobacco-related illness, the health ministers of member nations ordered that by 1993 all tobacco products sold in their countries must display tough and unambiguous health warnings.

All packages will carry the message "Smoking seriously damages health" and a second, rotating warning from a list that includes such admonitions as "Smoking Kills," "Smoking Causes Cancer" and "Smokers Die Younger." Packages must also list tar and nicotine levels.

“We were able to succeed despite some targeted opposition and thanks to the fact that the tobacco lobby woke up too late,” said Michel Richonier, head of the E.C.’s anti-cancer program.

According to E.C. statistics, 440,000 people in member nations die of smoking-related diseases each year, half of them from cancer.

The vote was 11 to 1 in favor of the tobacco labeling order. Britain voted against it, arguing that the order threatened a voluntary agreement it had forged with tobacco producers to include health warnings on their products. The voluntary warnings in Britain are nearly as strong as the wordings mandated by the E.C. They say, for example, “Warning: smoking can cause fatal diseases” and "Warning: smoking when pregnant can injure your baby and cause premature birth."

In the United States, four warning labels are in use. Each begins with

TIMN 0015144