Tobacco Firms Work To Improve Image

WASHINGTON - Tobacco companies are spending millions of dollars on advertising campaigns designed to improve their public image and counter growing anti-smoking sentiment.

The effort includes sponsoring cultural events, supporting charitable causes and promoting the idea that smoking is a sophisticated lifestyle choice.

“We’re trying to show people that tobacco products are part of a responsible adult life,” said Thomas J. Ryan, senior vice president for corporate communications at RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co.

Reynolds, the second-largest U.S. cigarette manufacturer, recently launched a $50 million advertising campaign featuring black and white photographs of artists and writers. The ads do not mention cigarettes but evoke a sense of creativity and intellectualism.

Philip Morris Inc., the largest U.S. cigarette manufacturer, is sponsoring a series of concerts in major cities under the theme “Music for a More Relaxed Time.”

“It’s about associating our products with positive experiences,” said Richard J. Rossi, Philip Morris' vice president for public relations.

The tobacco industry has come under increasing scrutiny in recent years as evidence mounts linking smoking to cancer and other health problems. Anti-smoking groups have launched aggressive campaigns to restrict advertising and raise taxes on cigarettes.

“They’re trying to distract people from the fact that their products are killing them,” said Daniel B. Smith, executive director of the American Lung Association. “These public relations efforts are a cynical attempt to manipulate public opinion.”

Reynolds is also sponsoring a series of television programs about the arts and culture. The company has donated $1 million to the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.

“We believe it’s important to support the arts,” Ryan said. “It’s part of our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen.”

The tobacco industry also is trying to portray itself as responsive to concerns about youth smoking. Reynolds recently announced a policy prohibiting the sale of its cigarettes to anyone under 18.

“We want to make it clear that we don’t want young people to smoke,” Ryan said. “It’s not good for them.”

But anti-smoking groups say the industry's efforts are largely cosmetic. They point out that Reynolds continues to market cigarettes with flavors and packaging designed to appeal to teenagers.

“They’re trying to have it both ways,” Smith said. “They want to appear responsible while continuing to target young people.”

Last summer I launched a campaign against tobacco advertising in North Carolina, where I was then working for the state attorney general's office. The campaign included public service announcements and billboards warning of the dangers of smoking.

John Castellani, the Reynolds’ public relations director, said the company is “committed to being a responsible corporate citizen” and supports efforts to prevent underage smoking.

“The program is not promoting cigarettes,” he said. “It’s designed to educate people about the risks.”

Castellani added that the tobacco industry is working with government officials to develop regulations aimed at preventing underage smoking.

“We want to be part of the solution,” he said.

But anti-smoking activists say the industry's efforts are a smokescreen, intended to deflect attention from the health consequences of smoking.

“They’re trying to create the impression that they’re doing something about the problem when in fact they’re not,” said Thomas Oken, a Boston University School of Public Health professor who has studied tobacco advertising. “Their primary goal is to protect their profits.”

Oken said the industry's public relations efforts are particularly troubling because they target young people.

“They’re trying to hook them on nicotine before they even realize what’s happening,” he said. “It’s predatory behavior.”

Reynolds recently announced a partnership with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, donating $5 million to support programs for children and teenagers.

“We want to invest in our communities,” Ryan said. “It’s part of our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen.”

But anti-smoking groups say the partnership is an attempt to buy goodwill and deflect criticism.

“It’s like giving a child candy while telling them not to eat sweets,” Smith said. “It doesn’t wash.”

A recent study by the Harvard School of Public Health found that tobacco advertising has a significant impact on young people's smoking behavior. The study concluded that restrictions on tobacco advertising are needed to protect children and teenagers.

“It is irresponsible for tobacco companies to continue marketing their products to young people,” said Dr. Elizabeth M. Williamson, lead author of the study. “We need to do everything we can to prevent them from starting to smoke.”

An adult has the right to make his own decisions, but a child does not.

Barber said he didn’t know how much money RJ Reynolds was spending on its public relations efforts. He said that tobacco companies have always tried to improve their image.

“It’s an old trick,” Barber said. “They try to convince people that smoking is glamorous or sophisticated.”

Reynolds Communications Director John Castellani, in a telephone interview, said the company's advertising campaign is not intended to mislead anyone.

"We are simply trying to show people that tobacco products can be part of a responsible adult lifestyle," he said. "We don’t want young people to smoke."

Castellani said Reynolds is working with government officials and anti-smoking groups to develop regulations aimed at preventing underage smoking.

“We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen,” he said.

But anti-smoking advocates say the company's efforts are largely cosmetic. They point out that Reynolds continues to market cigarettes with flavors and packaging designed to appeal to teenagers.

"They’re trying to have it both ways," said Daniel B. Smith, executive director of the American Lung Association. "They want to appear responsible while continuing to target young people."

Smith added that tobacco companies should be required to disclose how much money they spend on advertising and public relations.

“The public has a right to know,” he said. “It’s important for them to make informed decisions about whether or not to buy these products.”

Reynolds recently announced a partnership with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, donating $5 million to support programs for children and teenagers.

"We want to invest in our communities," Ryan said. "It's part of our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen."

But anti-smoking groups say the partnership is an attempt to buy goodwill and deflect criticism.

“It’s like giving a child candy while telling them not to eat sweets,” Smith said. “It doesn’t wash.”

We are not doing research but dealing with a public relations situation, said Frank J. Hawkins, director of marketing for Philip Morris.

"Everything these days is being done to improve the image," Hawkins said. "An adult has the right to make his own decisions, and we're simply trying to communicate that."

0329962
