6 The Tyler Courier-Times Sec. 1
MONDAY, MARCH 12, 1973

Tyler, Texas

Tobacco Institute Speaker
Hits Smoking-Health Claims

There is "no scientific may be hazardous to health; it
evidence showing a cause and not we do."
effect relationship" between diseases and smoking," said M.I. Drath said TI re-
Miss Ruth the representative of the Tobacco fraining companies are manufac-
top-most Tobacco Institute said at turing major cigarette man-
today. ufacturers.
The representative was said but to disseminate informa-
asked if the institute would tion on the health controversy and other
the president of TI, who is in health controversy and other
Tyler to address the Tyler questions about smoking.
The Tyler Evening Lions Club "I'm not here to advocate that
tonight at Dickey’s Restau- people start smoking or dis-
rant. courage those who do from
Miss Drath said the evidence smoking," he added. The
would associate cigarette smoke with question of whether cigarettes should be a matter of in-
statistical anomalies and that these should be an
"statistical anomalies" are no "matter of public
proof of cause and effect. policy."
The only causal cor- She also said that legislation
relation, she continued, is Texas House and Senate, mak-
between smokers, ex-smokers ing a distinction between “current
and ex-smokers," and does not places a misdemeanor is not
indicate any cause and effect. "I'm here to say that it
ties or types of lung cancer. It appears we have new ground
studies are statistical studies. for legislation against
"Cigarette smoke has been heavy perfume on a
linked with various maladies," man,” Drath said.
she added, “but there is no Miss Drath said that what is
evidence to say the smokers required is not legislation but
their incidence of lung cancer, his reputation, respect
is much less than non-smokers." and honesty on the part of
She added that TI’s position is "it may be hazardous to the smoker and the hon-
to cigarette smoking is “it esty of the industry.”

Tobacco on the history
of smoking in 18th century
Europe, said was notorious
for its use as a medicine.
TI's explanation
was that it was used to treat
various ailments such as
headaches and toothaches.

The Tobacco Institute is a
non-profit trade association
representing the owners of
approximately 90% of the
cigarette manufacturers in
the U.S.

TI publishes information
on tobacco and health,
smoking and economics,
and other related subjects.

Section 2
Page 6

TI PR 80 000488