224

hospital has not been presented from the Helsinki mental analysis study, though the results of this so suggest that reduction of raised plasma cholesterol by a high polyunsaturated rated:saturated ratio was associated with a reduction in incidence of coronary heart disease. The consistency in the results of these trials is impressive.

A further encouraging aspect of the Lipid Research Clinics trial is that regression of coronary artery atheroma has been reported, even though the resolution of the techniques used is still not perfected. Several studies are now being undertaken to determine the effects of diet and drugs on regression of atheromatous lesions in the femoral artery; these are easier to study. If it can be shown that parallel changes take place in the femoral and coronary arteries, then it would be reasonable to assume that when a beneficial effect is shown in femoral arterial lesions similar changes occur in coronary lesions.

There are those who will be quick to extrapolate the positive findings of the Lipid Research Clinics into people with lower concentrations of plasma cholesterol and low LDL cholesterol, and others who will wish to infer that cholesterol lowering does not have a similar beneficial effect. But we should be wary about over-interpreting these results.

The results of the trial apply only to the 5% at risk and, as the authors state, so far trials may not detect intervention that is truly beneficial. The multiple fat tolerance tests the dietary hypothesis. Unless, practically lowering diets have been unsuccessful, cholesterol lowering does test the amount being used, the possibility of because this would be less than the relative modification that would be necessary to produce a meaningful change.

The results of the trial do not provide information about the effects of different degrees of cholesterol reduction. It is possible that the benefits seen in the trial were due to a more substantial reduction in plasma cholesterol than has been achieved in other trials. The authors state that they have no evidence that the degree of cholesterol lowering influences the effect of dietary intervention.

The Lipid Research Clinics study was not a randomised controlled trial, but it provides valuable information about the effects of dietary intervention on coronary risk factors. It is important to remember that this was a population-based study and that the results may not be generalisable to other populations.

It is also important to note that the Lipid Research Clinics trial has been criticised for its methodology. The authors state that they have attempted to address these criticisms in their report.

The Lipid Research Clinics trial is an important contribution to our understanding of the role of plasma cholesterol in coronary heart disease. It provides further evidence that dietary intervention can reduce coronary risk factors.

BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL, VOLUME 228
11 FEBRUARY 1984

for the participants, the investigators, and the analysts. Their perseverance has paid off, and patients with considerably hypercholesterolaemia, particularly the young, should now be treated more vigorously. The fact that their prognosis may be changed is an important advance and should focus even more attention on the high risk strategy. But it should not be forgotten that the Lipid Research Clinics study was a trial using a succinylated resin and not a diet trial and that it was limited to those in the top 5% of plasma cholesterol distribution.

Duke of Edinburgh Professor of Cardiology,
University of Edinburgh,
Cardiovascular Research Unit,
Royal Infirmary EH8 9SF
M F OLIVER

¹ Anonymous. Lipid Research Clinics coronary primary prevention trial. II. Reduction in incidence of coronary heart disease. JAMA 1980;241:544-9.
² Anonymous. The coronary artery prevention trial: design and implementation. Circul 1979;59:II-4.
³ Anonymous. Lipid Research Clinics coronary primary prevention trial results. II. The reduction in incidence of coronary heart disease. Circulation 1980;61:III-23.
⁴ Hiomann, J, Bore, KV, Holme, I, Leese, P, Ellis, G, and smoking intervention on the incidence of coronary heart disease. Report of a randomised trial of a randomiser using a placebo. BMJ 1978;306:42-7.
⁵ WHO. Coronary prevention—a task force of the World Health Organisation. Geneva, 1978. (WHO technical report series no 655.)
⁶ Diet and heart disease. Report of a WHO study group. Geneva, 1980. (WHO technical report series no 693.)
⁷ Blackburn, H, Florey, C, Broadbent, P, Spector, A, and others. Dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids, coronary risk factors, and incidence of ischaemic heart disease. Lancet 1982;ii:57-60.
⁸ Key, T J, Watts, G B, Lewis, S M, and others. Is dietary replacement of saturated fat with polyunsaturated fat beneficial in reducing the risk of ischemic heart disease? Circulation 1983;67:II-24.
⁹ Oliver, MF. Dietary management of hyperlipoproteinaemia. Atherosclerosis 1982;45(suppl):157-64.
¹⁰ Elwood, PC, Ashfield, I, Swift, C A, and others. Effect of lowering serum cholesterol on incidence of coronary heart disease in men. Lancet 1983;ii:961-6.
¹¹ Anonymous. Lipid Research Clinics coronary primary prevention trial. III. Effects of diet on lipoprotein lipids and blood pressure. Circulation 1980;61:III-32.
¹² Blackburn, H, et al. Dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids, coronary risk factors, and incidence of ischaemic heart disease. Lancet 1982;ii:57-60.
¹³ Oliver, MF. Dietary management of hyperlipoproteinaemia. Atherosclerosis 1982;45(suppl):157-64.
¹⁴ Elwood, PC, et al. Effect of lowering serum cholesterol on incidence of coronary heart disease in men. Lancet 1983;ii:961-6.
¹⁵ Anonymous. Lipid Research Clinics coronary primary prevention trial. III. Effects of diet on lipoprotein lipids and blood pressure. Circulation 1980;61:III-32.

The results of the trial are encouraging, but they should be interpreted with caution. The trial was not a randomised controlled trial, and the results may not be generalisable to other populations. It is also important to note that the Lipid Research Clinics trial has been criticised for its methodology.