newsday, february 10, 1991

Pinpointing ‘Last Chance’
For Asymptomatic Smokers

Medical Tribune Report

New York—Could a little office spi-
rometry at the right time make the dif-
ference between life, breath, and death
for some men? Yes, it could save the
life of the susceptible smoker who
hasn't noticed his own lung deficit but
whose physician can immediately rec-
ognize it, concludes a London clinical
epidemiologist who put 792 British
working bachelors and white collar chaps
through exhaustive semi-annual exam-
inations for eight years to inquire into
the natural history of emphysema,
chronic bronchitis, and their relation to
cigarette smoking.

The major result of the study by Dr.
Charles Fletcher, Professor of Clinical
Epidemiology at the Royal Postgrade-
ate Medical School in London, appears
to be his persuasive demonstration that
while chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD) gets pushes 25% of
smokers into its grasp, a relen-
tively small group—about 13.3%—
develops it at a rate so slow that it
doesn’t threaten their lives until well
into their sixties.

“It's like knowing about a heart attack
before it happens,” Dr. Fletcher said in
an interview. “We can identify these
smokers and tell them to stop, or at
least cut back, before they get into seri-
ous trouble.”

The study population was drawn from
the membership rolls of 150 British
shops and the Post Office Savings Bank
in London, about 25% of the smokers
were found to have measurably im-
paired lungs by mid-life. Nevertheless,
Richard P. Phipps, biostatistician for
the project, told Medical Tribune that the
these smokers quit the habit by re-
indications were they’re likely to live
“as comfortably as if they’d never
smoked, though they’ll never recover
the lung function they've lost.”

Saving Lives… Cheaply

Thus, with relatively mild form
of COPD, quitting—rather it is fruitless
with COPD—does help, if the smoker
quits soon enough." He added that the
FEV early warning approach “is the
best way we’ve got to save a lot of
lives cheaply.”

Dr. Frank A. Spellman, Professor
of Medicine at Harvard Medical
School, who collaborated with Dr.
Fletcher in the analysis of the study
data, said that the findings underscore
the importance of early detection and
intervention in smokers at risk for
COPD. “The earlier we can identify
these individuals and get them to stop
smoking, the better their chances of
avoiding serious respiratory illness,” he
said.

Of the 64 study group of 792
patients, 64.4% were cigarette smokers,
13.3% lifelong non-smokers, 16.8%
ex-smokers, and 5.6% cigar or pipe
smokers. Dr. Fletcher, who was the
author of the 1962 report of the Royal
College of Surgeons linking smoking
and lung cancer, said he’ll keep track
of phlegm production and affective spi-
rometry as well as affecting in order to
see how they affected early develop-
ment of COPD.

Initially, each man in the study was
asked to tell menchers his smoking
history, allergies and general health
history, with special emphasis on res-
piratory conditions. A sample of spu-
tum was taken for analysis. At six-
month follow-up care more questions
about current smoking habits and in-
fections, new sputum sampling, and
spirometry.

It turned out that men’s mild COPD
developed so slowly that they were still
functioning well at age 60, even
though their lung function had de-
clined significantly. Dr. Fletcher said
that the study showed that smokers who
develop COPD early in life tend to have
more severe disease than those whose
COPD develops later.

“We’ve identified a group of men who
are at high risk for developing serious
respiratory illness,” he said. “By inter-
vening early, we can help them avoid
that fate.”