VERNON CONK

JOURNAL INDUIRER
D-1, 15739
HARTFORD METROPOLITAN AREA

MAR 25 1977

First Selectman Edward J. Hassillo pointed out that the three-
year-old state law bans smoking only when signs of prescribed
types are posted.
"There's nothing in the law," he said, "that requires anyone
to post those signs."
That stand was taken by Daily’s predecessor, John L.
Daily, who was first selectman when the law went into effect. He
contended there was no directive for anyone to install them
anywhere.
Town Counsel Abbot R. Schweibel has advised that it isn't
necessary for selectmen to take any action on the signs or
smoking prohibition. It is up to each town board to decide
whether to post and enforce no-smoking signs at
meetings.

Most East Windsor boards allow smoking at their meetings.
The Board of Education, however, voted to ban smoking at its
meetings even before the state law was passed. Even though
no signs are posted, members generally abide by the ban and vote
for it occasionally so that the smokers can maintain their
habit.

The Park and Recreation Commission also lives up to the
intent of the state law by banning smoking at its meetings. Most
other boards, however, allow smoking freely.
Hassillo is a member of the Board of Select-
men. A veteran pipe-smoker was a member of the school
board when it banned smoking.

The state legislature’s Public Health and Safety Committee is
now considering a dozen proposals to further limit smoking.
Bills have been submitted to prohibit smoking in schools and
college classrooms, gyms, and auditoriums; in retail establish-
ments, elevators and operated buildings, and in offices employing
more than 15 people.

Earlier this month, the Rhode Island legislature over-
whelmingly approved a law banning smoking in museums,
schools, elevators, theaters, libraries, buses, supermarkets, and
See SMOKING, Page 24

Continued From Page 9

hospitals except in designated smoking areas.
The pleacal and Joppiered cigarettes are smoked in more than
two-thirds of the nation’s households.
Smoking is permitted in Connecticut schools, but local boards
of education can ban it. The state law bans smoking in state
buildings, including the Capitol, but permits it in legislative
committee rooms.

The state law also prohibits smoking in trains, buses and taxicabs
carrying passengers for hire. It does not apply to private vehicles.
The law was passed in 1974 as a compromise between anti-
smoking groups and tobacco lobbyists.

Smoking is permitted in Connecticut schools, but local boards
of education can ban it. The state law bans smoking in state
buildings, including the Capitol, but permits it in legislative
committee rooms.

The state law also prohibits smoking in trains, buses and taxicabs
carrying passengers for hire. It does not apply to private vehicles.
The law was passed in 1974 as a compromise between anti-
smoking groups and tobacco lobbyists.

A recent survey by the American Medical Association found that
60 per cent of Connecticut’s doctors believe smoking should be
banned in all public places.

The state law also prohibits smoking in trains, buses and taxicabs
carrying passengers for hire. It does not apply to private vehicles.
The law was passed in 1974 as a compromise between anti-
smoking groups and tobacco lobbyists.



