DAILY JOURNAL

MARCH 1-530
OSI



Committee eyes extending meeting law to Legislature

Cigarette meeting bill advances



Session
State Legislature
1990





TIMMN 351624




ST. PAUL - Lawmakers on cigarette vending machines or distributing tobacco products or in any way involved in the cigarette trade associations involved in the state’s manufacturing, importing, or selling of cigarettes.



An amendment proposed by Sen. Jerome Rupp, DFL-Ma plewood, to brief committee members until Friday.



The House Commerce Committee Tuesday approved a measure to extend the state's open meeting law to legislative committees.



The move followed concerns raised over how lawmakers operate their machines out in the audience is exempt. “Don’t let them slip through,” said Rep. Bill Golden of Bloomington. "Let’s get these things under control.”



Lawmakers are attempting to work out a plan to protect both as much freedom and access with as little inconvenience as possible.



The bill, which has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee, would allow lawmakers to ban cigarette vending machines in public places.



At issue is whether lawmakers should be required to disclose their financial interests if they have a stake in any business that manufactures, distributes, or sells cigarettes.



The measure has the support of the Coalition for Responsible Vending, an organization which represents tobacco producers or import-ban businesses.



Supporters of the legislation said it is important to ensure fairness and transparency.



A similar bill failed last year after lawmakers raised concerns about its potential impact on legitimate businesses.



The proposed amendment would prohibit legislative committees from holding closed meetings with representatives of cigarette manufacturers, distributors, or retailers.



Sen. Paul Wellstone, DFL-Eve-land, said the measure is needed to ensure that lawmakers are not unduly influenced by the cigarette industry.



“We want to make sure that we’re making decisions based on what’s best for the people of Minnesota, not on what’s best for the cigarette companies,” Wellstone said.



The bill would also require lawmakers to disclose any financial interests they have in cigarette-related businesses before voting on legislation related to those businesses.



Rep. Jim Polzin, D-Le Sueur, said that proposed amendment is too broad and could stifle legitimate debate.



“It’s going to make it difficult for us to get information from people who are experts in the field,” Polzin said.



The committee voted 14-8 to send the bill on to the Senate.



Meanwhile, the Senate Elections and Ethics Committee held a hearing on a proposal to include the open meeting law in the state’s constitution.



Lawrence Pogemiller, DFL-Minne-apolis, said that proposed amendment is needed to ensure that the open meeting law cannot be easily repealed or weakened by future Legislatures.



Pogemiller offered instead to allow the Legislature to amend the Constitution rather than the courts, to al-low lawmakers to make changes to the open meeting law and to set standards for how those changes are made.



The committee chairman asked Sen. Jerome Ruppes, DFL-Maple-wood, to brief committee members until Friday.