THE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE 7-23-70

158
Review 29



VOLTAIREAN PRINCIPLE

The advertising section of the June 11, 1970, is-
sue of the Journal contains two pages purchased by
the American Tobacco Institute. The advertisements,
which have previously appeared in the lay press,
challenged the conclusions of widely publicized
research on the changes produced in canine res-
piratory passages by prolonged exposure to smoke.
As is evident in this week’s Correspondence col-
umn, decisions to publish such advertisements in the
Journal has impressed some readers as improper
and even venal.

The Journal's position concerning smoking and its
harmful effects should be abundantly clear. Editori-
als in the issues of August 1, 1963, and July 24,
1969, respectively express the Journal’s conviction
that smoking is a form of self-destruction, that the
epidemiologic evidence supports the belief that it
is most pervasive that attempts to undermine this
evidence are suspect, and that such efforts exac-
erbate smoking are noxious. The hard position taken
in these editorials, indeed, caused some readers to
object. There is no doubt about it: the Journal was
mindful that heavy smoking causes fatal
lung disease.

The Journal, however, has other convictions just
as if not even more fundamental and important. It
believes in freedom of the press, and of the body,
and a particularly strong conviction is that the body
is free to do as it pleases with its own. 

The Journal has not accepted advertisements for
cigarettes since 1951, for such advertisements pose
a moral product and a habit that the Journal believes
to be injurious to health. The advertising of the
American Tobacco Institute that the Journal did
publish does not tell a product; it expresses an
opinion sharply at variance at smoking. He-
lieves concerning the dangerous effects of smoking.
To reduce the risk, the best course would seem to be
to stop smoking. The Journal has never been so
foolish as to assume that it could persuade people
to do what they do not want to do.

REFERENCES

1.  Angell, B. N., and Steinbok, P. Smoking and health: a statement of the New England Journal of Medicine. N. Engl. J. Med. 289:537-539, Aug. 1, 1963.
2.  Steinbok, P., and Angell, B. N. Smoking and health: an update. N. Engl. J. Med. 281: 241-242, July 24, 1969.



[Brackets appear throughout the left margin of the image]