The Montgomery Advertiser

Montgomery, Alabama • Thursday, June 25, 1987 Page 11A

Ban On Tobacco Advertising
Will Not Have Desired Effect

By ROBERT B. EKELUND JR.
The pressure is building in this country for a ban on all tobacco advertising of a legal product to protect children from the influence of such advertising and to have generated a frenzied demand for legislation. Such action, however, Congress is likely to avoid this action. The courts will probably rule that it is unconstitutional.

While the court has established guidelines limiting government involvement in advertising in a recent case, the American Bar Association has found that the proposed ban on tobacco advertising does not meet these guidelines. Legal arguments for such a ban, according to the ABA, are “neither convincing nor convincing.”

The American Medical Association supports the ban on advertising as a means of protecting children and Americans. Better health is certainly a goal, but a ban is not the proper means for achieving this goal.

Legal scholars have found that if the ban is unconstitutional, and they believe it is, then it would be a dangerous precedent in a free society which has not declared “war” on commercial speech. The ABA further states that limiting advertising of tobacco products could lead to restrictions on other forms of advertising.

While improvements in tobac-co advertising have made it easier for the consumer because pro-ducts are now more clearly aware of the product and its qual-ities.

Advertising expenditures for tobacco does not cause any significant prob-lems. Advertising expenditure for tobacco has increased yearly, but tobacco consumption and the number of smokers have declined. The adver-tising also provides information to consumers about products which may be harmful. It is difficult to determine what effect advertising has on con-sumers, anti-smokers commercial interests are pushing for a ban.

The ABA says that “the most effective way to reduce smoking is through education and voluntary action.” The ABA further states that “a ban on tobacco advertising would not significantly reduce the number of smokers.”

In countries which allow tobacco to be advertised, cigarette con-sumption has declined since 1975. In countries like Sweden and Den-mark, cigarette consumption has in fact increased. Cigarette con-sumption in Communist countries such as China, is approximately 11.6 percent since 1970.

The advertising industry has also been involved to counter the ban much advertising have been used to increase awareness of tobacco products.

Alabama
Voices

The ABA says that “a ban on tobacco advertising would not significantly reduce the number of smokers.” The ABA further states that “a ban on tobacco advertising would not significantly reduce the number of smokers.”

The American Medical Association supports the ban on advertising as a means of protecting children and Americans. Better health is certainly a goal, but a ban is not the proper means for achieving this goal.