BUSINESS REPORTS

PUBLIC TV ANALYZES DONORS

The president of public TV station WNET/13 in New York City says that a cluster profile of viewers has been "pivotal" to the station's fund-raising campaigns, programming policies and editorial philosophy.

“Before that study, we were proceeding on a series of hunches, what and beliefs,” said Jay Iselin. “We knew our mission was but we didn’t really have a solid basis on which to do it. Now we do.”

Jane Fitzgibbon, senior vice president and director of research and development at Ogilvy & Mather, explained that the advertising agency conducted a "target group analysis" of WNET viewers, using the PRIZM system from Claritas Corporation. “The station already knew did not have a homogeneous listener base,” Fitzgibbon said. “But they thought they only had two segments: very affluent viewers, and all others. We broke their viewers into four separate groups.”

The study clustered 18 million of the 30,000 WNET viewers who had a household income of $50,000 or more. Fitzgibbon said the clusters were determined by lifestyle characteristics: “things like where they live, what they do, how they spend their time and money.”

The four groups, as defined in the study, are: Group 1, "High Potential Affluent Areas," which is 14 percent of the population and 38 percent of donors; Group 2, "High Potential Upscale Areas,” was 20 percent of the total population, 23 percent of donors and 22 percent of large donors. Group 3, “High Potential Middle Area,” was 24 percent of the population and 17 percent of donors, while Group 4, “Low Potential Areas," was 32 percent of the population and 12 percent of donors.

The study described each of the four target groups, including the sports they preferred, their hobbies, political and cultural activities, VALS orientations, their use of financial services, direct mail catalogs, and the types of public and network shows they preferred. WNET’s large donor (group 1), for example, was likely to be aged 45 to 64, to have a household income of $50,000 or more, to be college educated, to have a professional or managerial job, to live in an affluent suburb, and to have teenage children. The upscale high potential viewer (group 2) was likely to be 18 to 34 years of age, to be currently in college or a recent graduate to have an income of $35,000 to $50,000, to have a professional or technical job, to live single with no children, and to live in the suburbs. Many group 2 listeners were black.

Large donors (group 1) enjoyed a wide variety of WNET programs but are concentrated on public affairs and drama; Group 2, the upscale high potential viewers, claimed that they miss “high art” and science documentaries. The study found that, for like non-daily television viewers, there is a strong correlation between income and frequency of viewing. "The more money you have, the more likely you are to watch," said Iselin. “We know that much WNET viewers tend to be older and more affluent than those of other public stations. We also know that they’re more likely to give us money.”

WNET has used the study's findings to target its fund-raising efforts, tailoring direct mail appeals and on-air promotions to each group. For example, a direct mail appeal to Group 1 might emphasize the station’s cultural programs, while an appeal to Group 2 might focus on documentaries.