SARATOGA SPRINGS, N. Y.
SARATOGA - S. 11066
ALBANY METROPOLITAN AREA
OCT 6 1971

Cancer program volunteers

in search for information

Volunteers throughout the New York State Division are assisting the American Cancer Society quest for information that might reveal vital leads to fight a disease that kills one of every four Americans.

“We’re re-opening the Society’s massive cancer prevention study,” Dr. George H. Shields, president, New York State Division, explained. “That study began in 1959 and continued for six years. Approximately one million people were questioned about their health and living habits. Now we must see how many are alive today, and how many of them have developed cancer.”

Volunteers will all trace within the Division’s records to find the same original ACS questionnaires. This project will involve 5,000 researchers collecting data from 50,000 in dividuals. The questions dealt with factors possibly associated with cancer – diet, environmental conditions, family history, heredity habits and previous disease.

It has been estimated that it will hardly be completed by the end of 1972. “We need the help of volunteers to assist our staff,” said Harry H. Hartman, director of the Service Center. “They can work at home or in the office.”

Hartman explained that volunteers will be needed to check records and type questionnaires. Anyone interested should contact the American Cancer Society, 180 Wolf Road, Albany, N. Y. 12205.

Tremendous amounts of information have been collected from this study thus far,” he explained. “Just to give a few examples much of what we know about the dangers of cigarette smoking come from the study. We’ve learned that urban air pollution has very little influence on death rates from lung cancer. On the other hand, occupational exposure to asbestos dusts does increase the risk of lung cancer.”

The study demonstrated the great importance of abnormal bleeding as a warning signal for cancer of the uterus. It is especially important for women to have a medical examination and a Pap test at least once a year. “This is part of our cancer prevention program,” Dr. Shields said, “we know that we can detect some forms of cancer early we can save these women.”

He added, “For many years there was a belief that tuberculosis increase or decreases the risk of lung cancer. Our data shows that the risk of lung cancer is almost exactly the same for people with a history of tuberculosis as it is for people who never had the disease.”

“Why the new ingating of in formation? It goes on, things change,” Shields said. “We want to find out what is the reason for the lung’s cancer influence. He said, "but that's only part of it." His first goal is to determine if there has been any change since 1959 in the incidence of cancer.

“If we can determine whether or not cancer rates have changed, then we can begin to look for reasons why,” he explained. “We’re particularly interested in determining if there has been a change in the types of cancer that people are developing.”

The study is being conducted under the direction of Dr. Lee T. Copeland, chairman of the Cancer Research Committee.