8A - TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1989 - USA TODAY

Face-off: Smoking and health -- after 25 years

Keep up the pressure to end smoking

By James E. Davis
Guest columnist

DURHAM, N.C. — Despite steady gains in reducing the toll that tobacco takes on human life, we still have a long way to go toward eliminating this most preventable of public health problems.

In the 25 years since the first of the Surgeon General’s Advisory Committees on Smoking and Public Health issued its report, overwhelming evidence linking tobacco with a variety of potentially fatal diseases has accumulated. More recently, we have also learned that nicotine, the active ingredient in cigarettes, is itself a powerful, addictive substance. This only makes the need to end smoking even more urgent.

The past quarter century has been an extraordinary period for public health. Smoking is no longer fashionable or elegant. The public widely recognizes tobacco as a killer. It’s estimated that 400,000 people die each year from smoking and death's estimated 1,000 people a day die of diseases related to smoking. This toll has been made even more intolerable by the fact it largely pre-dates the legal actions now underway. We must convince public-health colleagues to cut off cigarette smoking

and the use of other tobacco products. We will press ahead with a comprehensive educational and legislative agenda designed to achieve what appears to be a truly achievable goal: of a tobacco-free society by 2000.

Much already has been done. Advertising restrictions and health warnings on products are stronger than ever. The right of smokers to sue is protected, recognized and given legal protection.

But we still have millions of Americans, with tens of thousands kicking the habit every year, others take up smoking. We must work harder to reduce the amount of time people spend exposed to tobacco smoke.  The industry, through slick advertising and portraying smoking as hip, sexy and macho, still lures thousands of young people into addiction each year.

Physicians, we must work harder to get the prop-er message across: that tobacco is not just illness.



End the pressure: Enough is enough

By Brennan Davis
Guest columnist

DURHAM, N.C. —  The cigarette smoking industry’s response to mounting evidence linking smoking and death is a cynical attempt to confuse the public and delay action. 

We’ve heard it all before: “Smoking is a personal choice.” “It’s too difficult to change.” “Regulations will hurt business.”

But these are not arguments; they are excuses. They are attempts to deflect responsibility for the enormous suffering caused by tobacco addiction.

The industry knows that smoking kills. It has known for decades. Yet, it continues to market its products aggressively, particularly to young people.  It spends billions of dollars each year on advertising and public relations designed to make smoking appear glamorous and acceptable.

We must not let the industry’s propaganda deter us from taking action. We must continue to press for comprehensive measures to reduce tobacco use, including:

*   Higher taxes on cigarettes
*   Stricter regulations on tobacco advertising
*   Smoke-free workplaces and public places
*   Expanded access to smoking cessation programs

It is time to end the pressure on us to accept the status quo. It is time to demand that our elected officials take action to protect the health of our citizens. 

It is time to say “enough” to the tobacco industry’s lies and manipulation. It is time to create a healthier future for all Americans.



Dr. James Do-vis is president of the American Medical Association.