THE WALL STREET JOURNAL MONDAY, JULY 29, 1991 B3

Canada’s Tobacco-Ad Ban
Is Overturned by Judge

BY G. PIERRE CADOT
Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
MONTREAL—In a case watched closely around the world, a Canadian judge has struck down the country's three-year-old law is restricting tobacco advertising, ruling it infringes on freedom of speech.

This form of paternalism or totalitarianism is unacceptable in a free and democratic society,” said Justice Bernard Chabot in a 16-page judgment that could have far-reaching implications for similar laws in other countries. The judge said the Canadian government has no right to restrict advertising to protect people from themselves.

Canada’s tobacco industry, which has been fighting the law since it was enacted in 1988, hailed the decision as a victory. “This is a great day for freedom,” said Robert W. Potter, an attorney for Imperial Tobacco.

“The idea that [the government] can tell us what we can and cannot say to consumers is outrageous,” Mr. Potter added. He noted that the law has already had a significant impact on the industry, with tobacco advertising accounting for only 15% of sales compared with 30% before the ban.

“This ruling will be good for the entire tobacco industry,” he said. “It will allow us to communicate directly with consumers without government interference.”

The Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers’ Council, which represents six major tobacco companies, also praised the decision. “We are very pleased,” said John Bartash, a council spokesman. “This is a vindication of our position that the law was unconstitutional.”

The Canadian Cancer Society and the Canadian Heart Foundation expressed disappointment with the ruling. They argued that the law was necessary to protect public health.

“This is a setback for public health in Canada,” said Dr. Robin Feasibility, executive director of the Canadian Cancer Society. “We are concerned that this decision will lead to an increase in smoking rates.”

Justice Chabot’s judgment stated that the government failed to prove that tobacco advertising causes people to smoke. He noted that there is no conclusive evidence linking advertising to smoking initiation.

“The government has not demonstrated a causal link between tobacco advertising and smoking,” Justice Chabot wrote. “It is speculative to assume that advertising induces people to start smoking.”

Imperial Tobacco Canada Inc. and Rothmans Benson & Hedges Inc., the two largest tobacco companies in Canada, brought the suit challenging the constitutionality of the law. They argued that the ban violates their right to free speech.

The Canadian government contended that the law was necessary to protect public health and prevent young people from starting to smoke. The government also argued that tobacco advertising is inherently deceptive because it appeals to children and encourages them to start smoking.

Justice Chabot rejected the government’s arguments, saying that they were not supported by evidence. He said that the government had failed to demonstrate that the law was a reasonable restriction on freedom of speech.

“The government has not shown that the law is necessary or proportionate to achieve its objective,” Justice Chabot wrote. “It is an arbitrary and unreasonable infringement on freedom of expression.”

Mr. Potter said the ruling will allow the tobacco industry to advertise more freely in Canada. He noted that magazine advertising accounts for 65% of magazine sales in Canada, and they’re loaded with cigarette ads; this isn't a foreign publication.

“This is a historic judgment,” said Mr. Potter, the Imperial Tobacco lawyer. “It reaffirms the principle that people are responsible for their own choices. What you can hear, see or read doesn’t make you smoke.” Even if tobacco is a danger to public health, Judge Chabot said, "there isn't any proof that advertising it sells it." He added that in his opinion, the word “never” had never been anything.

Imperial Tobacco and Rothmans Benson & Hedges were battling against bad faith by the Canadian government, which they alleged was trying to stifle their business. The Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers’ Council said it would consider appealing the decision.

“We are disappointed,” said Mr. Bartash. “We believe that the law is necessary to protect public health.” He added that the council will review Justice Chabot’s judgment and decide whether to appeal.

The government has 30 days to respond to the ruling. A spokesman for Health Minister Marcel Masse said that the government is reviewing the decision and considering its options. He declined to comment further.

Justice Chabot ruled that the ban would remain in effect pending an appeal. Imperial Tobacco and Rothmans Benson & Hedges had sought a declaration that the ban is unconstitutional, but Justice Chabot said that such a declaration would be premature until after any appeals are heard.

Mr. Potter said that the tobacco companies will continue to fight the law. He said that they are confident that they will ultimately prevail.



[Image of Bernard Chabot]