Wall Street Journal June 12, 1990 p. B1

ADVERTISING / BY JOANNE LIPMAN

Decline of Tobacco Sales
In Canada Fuels Ad Debate

Do tobacco ads work? Tobacco companies have always insisted they don’t. But the recent sharp drop in cigarette smoking in the first place. But Canada's 18-month-old tobacco ad ban suggests otherwise, and could help tobacco opponents in their fight to block the ads in the U.S.
Since Canada imposed its ban in Janu-ary 1989, tobacco consumption there has slipped at an even steeper rate. Sales have fallen off 26% in the most recent annual decline, nearly double the pace of wear along with the ad ban. The drop seems to be getting faster, with sales falling 7% in the last four months according to tobacco executives and government officials.

“To the ban’s proponents, this provides compelling evidence that a ban is working,” its mark. “Smoking is a tough nut to crack, and we don't think this is going to make it go away overnight, but cer-tainly the Canadian experience gives us hope," says Barbara A. Rittner, an activist with the non-profit citizen’s Alert.

Deponents’ reaction is more skeptical. They contend that a number of factors—including rising taxes and increased public awareness—are responsible for the decline. “It's a complex situation,” says Robert J. Corey, senior vice president of corporate affairs at RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co. “Attributing it solely to the ad ban is an oversimplification.”

The debate has challenged its constitutionality. The problem on both sides of the Atlantic is that it’s virtually impossible to isolate the effect of advertising. Other factors are bound to get in the way, from rising taxes to changing social attitudes. The problem is compounded because the ban is relatively new. It will take time before it's been a clean break from tobacco ads. Bill boards have been removed but some remain and it will be years until all cigarette advertising can be eliminated until 1997. Sports sponsorship won’t be affected at all.

“I wouldn’t expect it to impact of the sales in a big way,” says Richard W. Pollay, professor of marketing at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver. “The long run, it affects state rates and quitting rates, but it takes time for that to translate into something you can see.”

Mr. Pollay and other academics believe that tobacco ad bans are effective—at least to some extent. Jeffrey M. Macher, an economist professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, emphasizes the tobacco companies’ argument that stiff rules are harmful because they just drive smokers underground. “It creates a black market,” he says. “You end up with products that aren't regulated and people who are smoking in places where they shouldn’t be.”

The Canadian experience highlights the difficulties in measuring advertising’s impact. While cigarette sales have fallen sharply, other factors could be at play. Canada has increased taxes on cigarettes significantly—from an average of 93 cents per pack in 1988 to $1.54 now. The country also has a high rate of passive smoking regulations, which restrict where people can smoke.

“It’s hard to say how much of the decline is attributable to the ad ban versus taxes and other factors,” says James A. Morton, president of the Tobacco Industry Trade Advi-sory Committee. “We believe that advertising plays a relatively minor role.”

The U.S. debate over tobacco ads has been raging for years. The Food and Drug Administration is considering regulations that would restrict cigarette advertising on television and radio, and require warning labels on all cigarette packs.

Tobacco companies have mounted an aggressive lobbying campaign to block the FDA’s proposed rules. They argue that the restrictions would violate their First Amendment rights.



[Image of a person smoking a cigarette]