Lighting up? Author wants

you to reach for pack of 'Quit'

Don
Del Fiacco

“The writing of this little book was difficult, like getting out of a ditch.”

But he courageously outlined our history and negative habits, and vigorously blew away the theory and giving clouds of apprehension.

"It was also a ‘surprise’ authored by Charles F. Weatherall, said he telephoned me first. “I gave him several names."

A Twin Cities public relations firm called
Weatherall & Co., handled the book to stop
smokers at a time when they are most susceptible.

“We built a little story around funny stories.
a ‘Quit’ which Weatherall began to work for my
father, who owned a package store. A rather faded
orange wrapper is wrapped in cellophane. A printed
‘pull-tab’ cuts through the “stamp” and the Surgeon
General's health warning covering much of its
spine.

The book you go—and to care take the your
cigarettes—is Weatherall’s idea. "And
I wanted to reach for a cigarette, but I soon reached
for a copy of ‘Quit,’ smoke and then I don’t
have to worry.”

A native of Minneaplois who smoked for about 20
years, Weatherall said he claimed that his 400-page
book will give smokers and warmth when the “ripple”
of an urge comes. He urges them really though it
through when and if, the pain gets really tough.

Married and the father of a 6-year-old boy,
Weatherall, of 3825 Sheridan Ave., Minneapolis,
said that he stopped smoking some 1½ years ago.
“I continued to smoke because I felt it was necessary
to do so,” he said. “I would be arguing, ‘I really
can’t quit.’”

Weatherall said that the years we worked for
getting out of our habits and television intensified
our writing skill. The book, which came out in
the spring last fall, is selling well, especially in
Detroit area sales.

‘Quit,’ which soon will be available in all
major drug stores, is being sold for 75¢ a copy.
The proceeds have been given to the Minnesota
Heart Association. “This is just a real
minority story of our organization.”

Dedicated to his one-time editor of the cigarettes
industry, ‘Quit’ wants to quit smoking. He activated
his desire to want to quit smoking. "It helps the
smoker then he urges his smoking habits gradually.

See Del Fiacco, page 12B



TNM 276364