Integrity in Science

Lewis M. Branscomb

Views

Much of the problem of honor—or lack of honor—in science stems not from malice but from self-deception

In 1945 a physics graduate student at Harvard began a Ph.D. thesis project involving the use of molecular spectroscopy to determine the temperature of the atmosphere 1,000 km above the earth, at that time quite unknown. The Schumann-Runge bands of molecular oxygen had been observed as very weak emissions from the upper atmosphere. It was thought that they could be used as a thermometer, subject to verification in laboratory studies. But the bands had been observed only in absorption at very high pressures. Then in 1945 there appeared in Nature a report that stated that the Schumann-Runge bands had been observed in emission, at low pressures in a high-energy discharge. The author also analyzed the molecular constants of the states involved (1).

Delighted to find from the literature that his thesis problem could be successfully attacked, the student set about reproducing the experiment described in Nature. After months of fruitless effort, he became suspicious that the results were not error and even that the photograph published with the text was not a picture of the Schumann-Runge spectrum at all. Indeed, it appeared that the article might have been fabricated from the proverbial whole cloth. In any case, six months to a year later fellowship was lost, and another way of predestined determination found.

I was the graduate student, and I have always felt sorry for that author of Nature, in that his name is now synonymous with scientific fraud. He has never been able to get a responsible position in science. The incident did, however, lead me to ponder the nature of integrity in science.

The problem of honor in science is not simply a matter of honesty. It involves also a sense of responsibility and a commitment to truth. It requires that scientists be willing to admit their mistakes and to correct them promptly. It demands that they be skeptical of claims that are too good to be true, and that they be willing to challenge the work of others.

The problem is exacerbated by the fact that science has become so specialized. Scientists often know very little about the work being done in other fields. This makes it difficult for them to evaluate the validity of scientific claims. It also creates an environment in which fraud can flourish.

Scientists are human beings, and like all human beings, they are susceptible to temptation. They may be tempted to exaggerate their results in order to gain recognition or promotion. They may be tempted to plagiarize the work of others. They may be tempted to fabricate data in order to support their theories.

It is not enough for scientists to simply avoid these temptations. They must also create an environment in which it is difficult for them to occur. This requires that scientists be willing to challenge each other’s work and to hold each other accountable. It requires that they be willing to admit their mistakes and to correct them promptly.

The scientific community has no way to protect itself from sloppy or deceptive literature except to learn whose work to suspect as unreliable. This is a tough sentence to pass on an otherwise talented scientist.

The pressures on young science faculty are often fierce, not so much from tenure committees or even from peers, but within. A young untried scientist has all his emotional eggs in one basket. He picks a research problem and invests a year or more in it. To pursue problem a successful start is important to the opportunity to do research. A lifetime career hinges on nature’s cooperation as we are reminded on television, it is dangerous to trifle with Mother Nature. Scientists run risk every day. It takes a very self-confident young scientist to laugh at Tom Lehrer's “Lobachevsky” without a twinge of fear.

The Sigma Xi project on Honor in Science must deal with the broader question of the integrity of scientists’ behavior, not just with the novelty of what is admittedly the more serious offense of deliberate cheating (2). Unless science students are thoroughly inculcated with the discipline of correct scientific procedure, there is serious danger of impaired success. They ought to take the risk and do bent damaging by omission or appearing can best be contained if the standards in all disciplines can attend the review.

The following considerations are important:

1.  Scientists must recognize that science is a social process.
2.  Scientists must be willing to challenge each other’s work.
3.  Scientists must be willing to admit their mistakes.
4.  Scientists must be committed to truth.
5.  Scientists must create an environment in which it is difficult for fraud to occur.

I have often wondered why so many scientists seem easily impressed by those whose lives are not entirely above reproach. I suspect that the answer lies in the fact that most scientists are too busy doing research to keep up with what their colleagues are doing. They rely on secondhand information, and they are therefore vulnerable to being misled.

It is also true that some scientists are simply naive. They assume that everyone else is as honest as they are. This assumption can lead them to overlook red flags that would otherwise be obvious.

The problem of honor in science is not going to go away any time soon. It requires constant vigilance and a willingness to challenge the status quo. It requires that scientists be willing to hold each other accountable, and it requires that we create an environment in which integrity is valued above all else.

References

1.  W. L. Moffeit, Nature 156, 289 (1945).
2.  Sigma Xi, Proc. Sigma Xi 73, 101 (1946).