A Clipping From Virginia Press Services News Clipping Bureau P.O. Box C-32015 Richmond, VA 23261-2015

Star-Tribune Chatham, VA Circulation: 7,848
Date: 9/14/91

Supervisors oppose new anti-tobacco legislative proposal

BY TIM DAVIS Star-Tribune Editor

Underscoring its commitment to the soil with $6 cash crop, the Sullivan County Board of Supervisors Monday night opposing new anti-tobacco efforts being considered by Congress.

The measure, approved unanimously, will be sent to other tobacco-producing counties in Virginia and North Carolina in hopes of enlisting their support as well, said Supervisor Roy Byrd Jr., the board’s chairman.

Copies will also go to 5th District Representative L.F. Payne Jr. and Senators John Warner and Chuck Robb.

The issue was brought to the county's attention by Calvin Neal, a former Dan River District supervisor who serves on a special agricultural advisory committee appointed by Byrd.

Other local representatives named include Robert E. Burton, Field’s Dry Fork Farms member; Hustail L. Patterson, F.A. Keatts; and Susan Carroll of Bassett, who is a native of Patrick County.

Neal said the proposed legislation, sponsored by California Congressman Richard Pombo, would impose a $3.50-per-pound tax on tobacco.

California.

Romney’s bill, which has already passed a House committee, carries a price tag of $110 million, including $30 million for an annual anti-smoking advertising campaign. In addition, a new agency would be created under the Health and Human Services Department to award $25 million in grants each year for new anti-smoking programs.

Tobacco products would be required to carry health warnings; rings, on warning labels would be required to cover 20 percent of the front and back of cigarette packs.

According to the tobacco industry, their product would be held to the same standards as drugs in drug-free schools programs, and lawsuits could be brought against manufacturers and distributors for violating the new law.

“They just keep beating tobacco to death,” said Neal, who became interested in the legislation after hearing an announcement at a Danville tobacco warehouse.

"To key up throwing taxpayers’ money at this thing is nothing of better, just think the money could be more justly spent on education or infrastructure," he added.

Neal said Pombo's bill would cost Virginia tobacco farmers $35 million annually. He estimated that Sullivan County farmers would lose approximately $2 million.



CONFIDENTIAL: MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION