USA Today March 2, 1994 p. 1CA

Stop harassing smokers

OPPOSING VIEW There’s no
telling people what everyone has
already heard.

A primer coaching anti-smoking activities how to get media coverage noted that “fear of smoking...has enjoyed an extraordinary run.” That same brochure, a project of the federal government and an anti-smoking group, also told anti-ricking activists how to dress during interviews. This well before the latest public outcry.

Recently, you’ve probably read claims that there is something so compelling about cigarette advertising that it makes non-smokers turn to smoking. Never mind that in countries with tobacco control laws, young adults and youngsters smoking than here.

There have been stories about fast-food restaurants McDonald's, want smokers to eat their burgers somewhere else. Never mind the accommodations stories can feed all Drug Administration may move to regulate cig-

rettes and claim manufacturers add nicotine to cigarettes. Never mind that after manufacturing, there is less nicotine in cigarettes than naturally occurs in tobacco. Smokers are being singled out as the only group of taxpayers to pay the tax as a way to reform. Never mind the bill for health care requires that all taxes be thrown out the window.

This paper now suggests that smokers may have to finance more government anti-smoking messages. Never mind that those messages are already understood and believed. These are messages already reinforced continually by the media, the government, schools and others.

Before asking smokers to pay more for their own harassment, consider: More in the USA are aware of health claims about smoking than can name George Washington; nearly every American believes smoking is harmful only 1 of 3 knows if it’s true.

One state health department produced advertisements with a cartoon character that vilify cigarette manufacturers. This approach — attacking the tobacco industry — was recently rejected by the federal government after test indicated such messages “did not communicate clearly and effectively to an audience of young adults.”

Clearly, we don't need to ask smokers to pay for extravagant and expensive efforts to tell people what they already have heard.



By Stanton A. Glantz
President, Tobacco Institute