Superman and the Marlboro Woman

PAUL MAGNUS, MB, BS

Since its release by Warner Communications in 1980, the film Superman II has been viewed by millions of children and teenagers around the world in theaters, on commercial television, and on video recorders. They have marveled at the high-tech adventures of the comic book hero who has fought for truth, justice, and the American way for nearly half a century. As expected Superman saves the day against assorted super-criminals. But in addition, Lois Lane, his romantic interest, plays a prominent role. On the one hand, she is a bright, independent and daring reporter for The Daily Planet. On the other hand, she is sexy, romantic, and submissive to the muscular superhero.

Lois Lane, role model for millions of teenage girls, and children, also smokes cigarettes—the product that kills more people than alcohol, other drugs, and automobiles combined. Moreover, in Superman II there are numerous images, both fleeting and lingering, of her one brand of cigarettes—Marlboro—the world’s number one seller, manufactured by Philip Morris Inc., New York. Consider this scene: Lois Lane and Superman's reporter, Clark Kent, are hurrying through the offices of The Daily Planet. Lois has a cigarette in her mouth. Then it comes to room she begins to squeeze some orange juice. There is close-up of a cigarette dangling from her lips while she points with benefit of vitamin C. As she stubs out her cigarette in a filthy ashtray, she talks of “natural” utility oiler.

Again, consider this scene: at the ball held for the benefit of children, Lois Lane is seen talking to Superman. She holds a cigarette in her hand. She offers him one. He refuses. She lights it and inhales deeply. Smoke curls around her face as she laughs. Later, she is shown smoking while dancing with Superman. In another scene, she is standing near a window, smoking and gazing out at the city.

The Marlboro Company has been shrewd in its exploitation of the film. The Marlboro Man, that rugged cowboy who embodies masculine strength and independence, appears several times throughout the film. He is always there to lend an air of authenticity to the proceedings.

Even those who do appreciate the cigarette-orange juice give may just as easily empathize with Lois. People seem to be giving smokers a hard time these days. It makes Lois Lane more vulnerable, endearing, and “womanly.”

Questions also arise concerning other scenes in the film. In one scene Lois Lane drags on a cigarette while dressed in red and white, the colors of Marlboro. In another scene of a climactic battle with super-powered criminals (Fight at truck with a bright red and white Marlboro logo is seen in the center of the screen). Superman is hurled into a truck, and he then fends off an attacker, with the cigarette brand logo in the background. The truck is then rammed by a bus, fueled by one of the super-villains, burning Superman in the wreckage. After a worrisome pause, Superman emerges through the Marlboro fog. As an added touch, a text with a Marlboro advertisement appears in constant view in the background.

Marlboro’s dramatic linking to both the super hero and heroine—the pulling power of a clean-living universal legend is exploited by a commercial trick. Philip Morris has achieved an important recruiting message for an undisclosed consideration, the movie makers permitted repeated juxtapositions of a children's brand of cigarettes.

This method is confirmed in a technical report. The joint film/advertising strategy to lure young people into cigarette dependency is now in use nationally.

As this paper is written, 1981, the U.S. Surgeon General’s Report on Smoking and Health has been out for nearly five years. It documents the overwhelming evidence that cigarette smoking causes cancer, heart disease, emphysema, and other debilitating illnesses. Despite this knowledge, millions of Americans continue to smoke.

The Marlboro Company is now using Superman II to recruit a new generation of smokers. The company is not merely selling cigarettes; it is selling a lifestyle—a lifestyle that glorifies strength, independence, and romance. And it is doing so by associating its product with one of the most popular heroes in the world.

PAUL MAGNUS, MB, BS
Department of Community Medicine
The University of Texas Medical Branch
Galveston, Texas 77238