871/14655

THE SUN

Tuesday, November 12, 1991

Entertainment • Trends • Comics

Striving to make
ashtray go way
of the spitton

by SANDY BENNEY

The smell of stale smoke hangs heavy in the air. It clings to your clothes, your hair, your skin. It’s a constant reminder that you are surrounded by people who don't care about your health. 

Smoking is not only bad for smokers, it’s also bad for non-smokers. Secondhand smoke can cause respiratory problems, heart disease, and cancer. And even if you don’t get sick, the smell of smoke can be irritating and unpleasant.

But what can you do? You can't force people to quit smoking. You can't ban smoking altogether. So what are your options? 

One option is to complain. To tell smokers that they are being inconsiderate. But this rarely works. Smokers often dismiss non-smokers as overly sensitive or “anti-smoking.”

Another option is to avoid smokers. To stay away from places where people smoke. But this can be difficult, especially if you live in a city like New York. 

A third option is to educate yourself and others about the dangers of secondhand smoke. The more people know about the risks, the more likely they are to take action.

But perhaps the most important thing you can do is to support policies that restrict smoking. This includes things like banning smoking in public places, raising taxes on cigarettes, and requiring tobacco companies to disclose the health risks associated with their products. 

The fight against smoking is a long one. But it’s a fight worth fighting. Because everyone deserves to breathe clean air.

PLEASE
DON'T SMOKE

CAUTION:
SMOKING
MAY BE
HAZARDOUS
TO YOUR
HEALTH

# Anti-Smokers Bill

PLEASE
DON'T SMOKE!

PEOPLE ARE BREATHING

PLEASE
DON’T SMOKE!

GASP
NON-SMOKERS
HAVE RIGHTS
too

“We don’t want to be treated like second class citizens,” says Mary Jones, a member of the Anti-Smoking Coalition. “We have a right to breathe clean air.” 

The coalition is pushing for a bill that would ban smoking in all public places, including restaurants, bars, and stores. The bill would also require tobacco companies to disclose the health risks associated with their products on cigarette packages.

“This isn’t about punishing smokers,” says Jones. “It’s about protecting the health of everyone.” 

The bill has been met with opposition from the tobacco industry, which argues that it would hurt businesses and infringe on people's freedom. But supporters of the bill say that the health benefits outweigh any economic costs.

“We’re not asking for much,” says Jones. “Just a little consideration for our health.” 



PLEASE
DON'T SMOKE

PEOPLE ARE BREATHING

TIFL 0401393