17–LATEX TEXTURE & WATERPROOF

3090 SERIES, 3093, 5398

SPRED®
Texture Paint
UP TO 1/8" THICKNESS

Master Basecoat Paint No. 3093:
Interior Ceiling Spray
No. 5398

PY NSDS # 11782

FIRE EXPLOSION HAZARD DATA

Fire Hazard: This product is not Class III Combustible Liquid in excess of 10% by weight, as defined by 49 CFR Part 173.131.

Explosion Hazard: Vapors may travel to a source of ignition and flash back.

Flash Point: > 200°F (93°C) Closed Cup.

Lower Explosive Limit: .8% by volume in air.

Upper Explosive Limit: Not determined.

Extinguishing Media: Use dry chemical, carbon dioxide or appropriate foam. Water spray may be used to cool fire-exposed containers.

Special Fire Fighting Procedures: Wear self-contained breathing apparatus and full protective clothing.

Health Hazard Data

Inhalation: May cause irritation of the respiratory tract. Prolonged inhalation may lead to central nervous system depression.

Skin Contact: Prolonged or repeated contact may cause skin irritation.

Eye Contact: Liquid or vapors may cause eye irritation.

Ingestion: Ingestion may cause nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Aspiration into lungs may cause chemical pneumonitis.

Chronic Effects: This product contains crystalline silica. Prolonged exposure to respirable crystalline silica may cause silicosis, a form of lung disease.

Carcinogenicity: Crystalline silica is in Group 2B by IARC – possibly carcinogenic to humans.

Reactivity Data

Conditions to Avoid: Heat, sparks, open flames and other sources of ignition.

Incompatible Materials: Strong acids and oxidizers.

Hazardous Decomposition Products: Carbon Monoxide

Hazardous Polymerization: Will not occur.

SPILL OR LEAK PROCEDURES

Steps to be taken if material is released or spilled: Contain spill with absorbent materials. Comply with all applicable regulations.

Waste disposal methods: Dispose of in accordance with federal, state and local regulations. (3093)

Spills may be collected with non-combustible absorption materials. (3093)

SPECIAL PROTECTION INFORMATION

Use with adequate ventilation. Wear appropriate personal protective equipment. Avoid skin contact. When engineering controls are not feasible to maintain vapor concentrations below applicable exposure limits, use respiratory protection in accordance with OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.134.

Approved respirators: Use a NIOSH approved respirator for organic vapors.

Ventilation: Provide adequate ventilation or local exhaust to prevent build-up of vapors.

SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS

Safety Glasses
Respirator
Gloves
Protective Clothing

Otherwise, use with adequate ventilation. Keep from freezing. Keep away from heat and open flame.

Harmful or Irritant: May be harmful if swallowed. Do not take internally.

Storage and Use: Store in a cool, dry, well-ventilated area away from incompatible materials. Keep containers tightly closed. (3093)

Wear suitable protective clothing when handling this product. Avoid contact with skin and eyes. Wash thoroughly after handling.

First Aid: In case of eye contact, flush immediately with water for 15 minutes and call a physician. If inhaled, remove to fresh air. If on skin, wash with soap and water. If ingested, do not induce vomiting; call a physician immediately.

Refer to SDS for additional information. (3093)

205279L37S



17