Certified Lab Chows™

62



Purina Certified Lab Chows make it possible to save time and
money while maintaining the integrity of your research. As part
of Purina’s Good Laboratory Practices program, Certified Lab Chows are-
sampled and analyzed for key contaminants.

These Certified Lab Chows for mice, rats, hamsters, guinea
pigs, rabbits, and nonhuman primates meet strict standards
under even a drug and estrogen-free plant in Richmond,
Indiana. All Certified Lab Chows provide consistent nutri-
tional control related to release research.

Samples from every bag produced are combined to make up
a composite sample for analysis. The composite sample is
analyzed to provide accurate assays for heavy metals, aflatoxins, chlorinated hydrocarbons, organochlo-
rines, and pesticides. A portion of each composite
sample is stored at -20°C for one year in case a need for addi-
tional analyses comes up at a later date.

Certified Lab Chows:

Certified Rodent Chow 5032
Certified Autoclave Rodent Chow 5014
Certified Mouse Diet 5097
Certified Guinea Pig Chow 5226
Certified Rats Chow 5038
Certified Pregnant Rats Chow 5225

once a composite sample has been proven to meet spec-
ifications, the bags and their manufacturing is officially certi-
fied. A certificate of analysis accompanies each bag with
each bag indicating the actual contaminant concentrations.

Because Certified Lab Chows are sampled and analyzed be-
fore you receive them, you can cut costs in three ways:

1. You can meet GLP standards without the cost of setting up
your own testing facilities.
2. You save time and labor that would be required to col-
lect samples, perform analyses, and wait for the re-
sults.
3. You receive purchased feed that may have to be discarded due
to excessive contamination.

Certification Profile

Based on analysis of a composite sample, each Certi-
fied Lab Chows product contains no more than the
maximum concentrations of the following substances:

Heavy Metals Maximum
Arsenic 5 ppm
Cadmium 2 ppm
Lead 10 ppm
Mercury 1 pbb
Aflatoxin

Chlorinated Hydrocarbons Maximum
BHC (Lindane) .03 ppm
DDE .03 ppm
DDT .03 ppm
Endrin .03 ppm
PCB .03 ppm

Organochlorine Substances Maximum
Chlordane 2 ppm
DDD 2 ppm
Dieldrin 2 ppm
Endosulfan 2 ppm
Kepone 2 ppm

Pesticides & Epoxides Maximum
Aldrin .03 ppm
Carbaryl .1 ppm
Cypermethrin .1 ppm
Epinephrine .03 ppm
Fonofos .03 ppm
Methoxychlor .1 ppm
Oxydemeton-methyl .03 ppm
Propoxur .1 ppm

Nutrient Analysis (Typical)
Crude Protein (as fed basis) 24.0%
Fat (as fed basis) 8.5%
Fiber (as fed basis) 3.5%
Moisture (as fed basis) 10.5%

Guaranteed Amino Acids (minimum):
L-Lysine 1.3%
DL-Methionine 0.45%
Tryptophan .26%

For information on additional testing, contact your Purina
representative or call 1-800-DIET-PETS.



4