PHYSIOLOGY OF RESPIRATORY SYSTEM and
CHRONIC PULMONARY DISEASES

THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH - U.S.A., INC. Ren: 1/1/70
Ren: 1/1/71

COMMITTEE: 110 EAST 59TH STREET
Dr. Looki NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022
Dr. Meier
Dr. Sommers

Application for Research Grant
AUG 14 1972 Date July 26, 1972.

1. Name of Investigator(s), Including Titles and Degrees:
Lauewyrs, Joseph H., M.D., Professor ordinarius in Microscopic Anatomy
and Pathology & Chairman, Principal Investigator.
2. Institution:
Address:  University Laboratory of Cardiopulmonary and General Pathology, Department of
Pathology, University of Leuven, 12 Kinderbroodstraat, B. 3000 LEUVEN-BELGIUM.

3. Short Title of Project:
The Transport of the Lung. Their role in fluid transport and clearance of air-
borne particulate matter in normal and experimental conditions and in various
lung diseases.

4. Proposed Starting Date: January 1, 1973.

5. Anticipated Duration of the Study Support:
Two (2) years.

6. Brief Description of Objectives or Specific Aim:
The proposed field of investigation, numerous aspects relating to the
structure and function of the pulmonary lymphatics are still either largely unknown or a
matter of considerable controversy in the literature. Each technique of study having its
limitations, we propose to investigate the structure and function of the pulmonary lymphatics which will include various techniques, i.e.,
microsurgical injection studies, stereoscopic microscopy, morphometry, electron
microscopy and microangiography, histological techniques, morphometrical techniques,
radiological methods, and transmission electron microscopy, freeze-suturing electron
microscopy and others etc.

During the three year period proposed, we plan to study the structure of the pulmonary
lymphatics in the normal lung and in experimental pneumoconiosis (silicosis, asbestoses,
berylliosis), chronic bronchitis, emphysema, [sic] an experimental type of the various
lung diseases which are associated with abnormal fluid transport. In addition, we plan to
study the role of the pulmonary lymphatics in the clearance of foreign particulate matter
(carbon) from the lung. The study will be carried out on dogs and rabbits.

7. Plan of Work:
The proposed work is divided into three phases: (1) Development of techniques for
microsurgical injection of dyes and contrast media into the pulmonary lymphatics; (2)
morphological studies of the pulmonary lymphatics in normal lungs and in experimental
pneumoconiosis, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and other lung diseases; (3) study of the
role of the pulmonary lymphatics in the clearance of foreign particulate matter from the
lung.

8. Available Facilities:
The University Laboratory of Cardiopulmonary and General Pathology is fully equipped for
histological, electron microscopical, and biochemical studies. The laboratory has a full
complement of trained personnel.

9. Previous Work Done by Investigator(s) on this or Related Subjects:
We have previously published extensively on the structure and function of the pulmonary
lymphatics in various lung diseases (see attached list).

10. Significance of Proposed Work:
The proposed work is expected to provide new insights into the role of the pulmonary
lymphatics in the pathogenesis of chronic lung diseases. The results may lead to improved
methods for diagnosis and treatment of these diseases.

11. Budget: See Attached Sheets.



