HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE



NOTICE OF RESEARCH PROJECTForm OMB No. 60156-12

SUBMITTED TO: Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Division of Research Grants, Bethesda, Md.

TITLE OF PROJECT
Investigation of Environmental Carcinogenisis




NAME AND ADDRESS OF APPLICANT INSTITUTION
University of Southern California
300 N. Vermont Avenue, Los Angeles 38, California



SUMMARY OF PROPOSED WORK (250 words or less - 1 Self Contained Unit)
The National Cancer Institute’s concern for the possibility that exposure to air pollutants may increase cancer incidence has prompted this study. The induction of cancer is being studied by several approaches. Carcinogenic hydrocarbons are being quantified and there possible bioassay studies utilizing skin painting, subcutaneous injection, and inhalation techniques are planned. In addition, the effects of the role of exogenous host-modifying factors such as spontaneously occurring defects in DNA repair mechanisms on carcinogenisis will be investigated. The effect of particulate deposition on lung cellular morphology is a respiratory tract has been determined. The pulmonary clearance mechanism is being studied with special emphasis on the effect of hepatic injury on the primary clearances.
A biochemical assay for detecting alterations in DNA repair capacity, using an o-phenylacetic acid induced system, qualitative and quantitative studies on the role of glutathione S-transferase in carcinogen detoxification are planned.

The project will be conducted by a team consisting of Dr. Paul E. Maréchal, Principal Investigator, Dr. Hans L. Falk, Associate Professor, and several graduate students and postdoctoral fellows.
Dr. Maréchal is an expert in air pollution and its effects on the respiratory tract. He has previously demonstrated that exposure to urban air pollutants can cause lung injury in experimental animals.
Dr. Falk is an expert in biochemical carcinogenesis and DNA repair mechanisms. He has previously demonstrated that certain chemicals can inhibit DNA repair capacity.

The project will be conducted at the University of Southern California School of Medicine, Department of Pathology. The facilities available are adequate for the proposed work.



NAME AND ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR
Paul E. Maréchal, M.D., Department of Pathology, Professor
Hans L. Falk, Ph.D., Department of Pathology, Adjunct Associate Professor




30150708