.Sec Int. Chem. Rec. Cf.
Ken Rush

ABSTRACT FORM



25th Tobacco Chemists Research Conference
Louisville, Kentucky October 6-8, 1971

1. Abstract should be not less than 125 words nor more than 225 words. It should
be included in the space designated below.

2. Original should be on this form and the original and three copies, carbon or
other type, are requested. (For format, see Sample Abstract enclosed.)

3. Please note: (a) Title is all capitals.
(b) Location follows author name if multiple authors are at
different locations.
(c) Presenting author is underlined.
(d) Use single spacing.

4. Projection requirements: 3" x 4-1/4”  ; 2" x 2" Other _______

5. Estimated delivery time: ______ Minutes.

6. Abstract should be received not later than July 23, 1971.

7. Mail original and 3 copies of Abstract to: Dr. Robert C. Benedict, Eastern
Regional Research Laboratories, U.S.D.A., 600 East Mermaid Lane,
Wyndmoor, Pennsylvania 19018



AUTOMATED METHOD FOR THE DETERMINATION OF PLASTICIZERS
IN Cigarette FILTER ROD MATERIAL

A. J. Sensabaugh and Kenneth L. Rush, R. J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company, Research Division, 115 Chestnut Street,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27001

An automated method is proposed for the colorimetric determination of triacetin and
triethylene glycol diacetate plasticizers in cellulose acetate cigarette filter rods.

Should the identity of the plasticizer be unknown, initial testing must include a
simple qualitative analysis by GC. Sample preparation consists of extraction of
plasticizer from the filter material with methanol. Then the reaction of the extracted
acetate with hydroxylamine, followed by an addition of ferric chloride, yields a
ferric hydroxamate complex producing a violet color. The absorption maximum of the
complex is at 500 nm and follows Beer’s Law from 0-800 µg/ml. The optical density range
is 0.00-0.700.

The simplicity of this procedure lends itself well to use with automated instrumenta-
tion. It has been adapted for use on the Robit ChemSet which permits the performance of
analyses at a rate of ten hour, uses the standards necessary for a concentration
curve. The method has been shown to accurately well if either triacetin or triethylene
glycol diacetate is present; with a relative recovery-for-total plasticizer of 98 ± 2%.



51398 330