Confidential Form

ATTACHMENT I

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO
PREFERRED PACKAGE COUNTER DISPLAY PLAN

PSA. 7-STORES

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company is pleased to announce the following display plans, effective April 1, 1990, for retail stores which sell 12 oz. GPUs primarily by the package. This plan terminates and supersedes permanent Counter Display plans and the Dorcal CDD Plan in the retail outlets which accept these plans.

General Requirements for Participation:

• RIR Permanent Counter Display at cash register
• RIR Promotional Counter Display
• RIR Designated Advertising

Payments will be made on a quarterly basis as follows. All payments shown per month per store:



Weekly
Volume Cigarette
Category Volume

1 120-169
2 170+

Plan

3 Trays  4 Trays
• Promo Display • Promo Display
• Designated Adv. • Designated Adv.

$85   $95    $95   $100



Cigarette volume will be determined by the average total weekly sales of all brands of cigarettes during the most recent three-month period.

Specific Requirements:

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will furnish appropriate display fixtures and advertising vehicle for the plan selected by the retailer.

• Cash Register Display
This Plan is made available to those retailers who position and maintain the display adjoining the primary cash register. The display selected will be placed with riser cards(s) on top tray(s) or other advertising materials as determined by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company on lower tray(s) if applicable.
The primary cash register position, as defined by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, is a position directly adjoining the most active cash register and on the customer side or front of that register. Final appro-val of an acceptable display position will be determined by a R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company representative.

• Promotional Counter Display
The Promotional Counter Display consists of a specifically designated corner or a combination of full price promotional packs and low price RIR brands.
The display will be positioned on the primary checkouts as agreed upon by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company representative.

• Designated Advertising
Designated advertising must be placed in an unobstructed location no more than 10 feet from the primary cash register.
All designated advertising placement are to meet such requirements as determined by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.



5/8/90 3732