COMPETITIVE PRODUCT INTRODUCTION

PROGRESS REPORT

FROM: K.A. SPARROW
TO: D.J. Landro
DATE: 9/10/86
REPORTING PERIODS: AUG X SEPT OCT NOV

TEST MARKET GEOGRAPHY: The area involved is the R.J. Reynolds Chicago Region and Buffalo Region.
In the Chicagoland area, the product is being worked by the Sales Reps, with POS, of all types, including metal
signs, counter mats, danglers, posters, decals, and mobile hanging pieces. The billboard support is very heavy
along expressways and in many instances only "Menthol" appears on the display if only a 1-tray unit for Camels.
to Fond du Lac to Kenosha. The area on the attached map includes the Milwaukee Metro area. In this area, there
is little or no POS, no billboards, and currently no promotional support, other than some 10e coupons or stickers

PRICE POINT: FULL $ 11.89 (indicates distribution cost per carton)

SALES FORCE INVOLVEMENT: Illinois - Product was pre-soled into accounts for rapid distribution. POS
is placed on perms and in many instances the 1-tray unit "Menthol" appears on the display if only a 1-tray unit for Camels.
There are panels for the lighted headers on perms. Sales Reps have been pre-booking orders for B1G1F
product, which has appeared at retail and, in most cases, has sold through very fast. Reps are also placing
facsimile displays that are a heavy-duty cardboard unit, which has 4 columns, 2 cartons of each packing.
Wisconsin - Product was pre-soled and shipped; however, it does not appear that sales force is actively
promoting. Menthol is on the perms, 1-2 rows of each, and no promotional support. Occasionally,
a retailer has been told that the Sales Rep will coupon it the next time around.

DISTRIBUTORS - ACCEPTANCE/INTRO TERMS/INTRO DEALS:
All direct accounts have accepted the product.
Camel Menthol is only 6th in R.M.’s List price and terms are the same as Camel.

DISTRIBUTORS INVOLVEMENT:
R.J. Reynolds, and in some cases, the R.J. Reynolds Sales Reps have asked to visit several of our key
accounts to “show them how to merchandise” the product. We have been advised that they are working with 7-Eleven
and Pantry Plus, and in some instances, have been able to get a good display. We are working with the distributors
to get our product into as many accounts as possible, and we have been advised that they are working with 7-Eleven
and Pantry Plus, and in some instances, have been able to get a good display. We are working with the distributors
to get our product into as many accounts as possible, and we have been advised that they are working with 7-Eleven
and Pantry Plus, and in some instances, have been able to get a good display. We are working with the distributors
to get our product into as many accounts as possible, and we have been advised that they are working with 7-Eleven
and Pantry Plus, and in some instances, have been able to get a good display. We are working with the distributors
to get our product into as many accounts as possible, and we have been advised that they are working with 7-Eleven
and Pantry Plus, and in some instances, have been able to get a good display.

MANUFACTURER: R.J. Reynolds
TYPE OF PACKAGING: Full Flavor Box and Light Box

NOTES:
The area on the attached map includes the Milwaukee Metro area. In this area, there is little or no POS, no billboards,
and currently no promotional support, other than some 10e coupons or stickers. The area on the attached map
includes the Milwaukee Metro area. In this area, there is little or no POS, no billboards, and currently no
promotional support, other than some 10e coupons or stickers.