This I want to show the generation of the CSS of the 30 day isolation study.

In this study TDS was held in a separate room of 20 m³ volume which was equipped with various surface materials.

This room was called conditioning room.

In order to generate different areas of the CSS, by means out of the radiating room was diluted before sending the exposure chamber.

The disadvantage of this general method was that the CSS was sucked through the exposure chamber by an pump located outside the exposure chamber outlet.

This system was not very stable because for example when the exposure chamber was not right / air from the outside diluted CSS exposure chamber was diluted by air from the outside while in the exposure chamber was dilution.

Therefore for future long term isolation we want to consider that the CSS flow of CSS through the exposure chamber will be driven by positive pressure produced by the after-exposure group is received.

This can only be reached if both exposure groups as you can see from this area conditioning room on streamer I.

Here the SS is collected on top of the smoking machine and led through into here for a better mixing.

Perfected to relate the CSS with de dilution under isolation devices.

At this site was used in I need to remove isolates an air mixer.

The conditioning chamber should be located on the ceiling.

For means of space and should use its effect masked.

It is long term isolation study should be performed out of studio of process to be done.

At the end of the room, I would like to have placed you animal.

Therefore in the exposure chamber, we need to consider that it is a closed system.

The pressure difference between the conditioning room and the exposure chamber must be maintained.

This can only be reached if both exposure groups as you can see from this area conditioning room on streamer I.

Here the SS is collected on top of the smoking machine and led through into here for a better mixing.

Perfected to relate the CSS with de dilution under isolation devices.

At this site was used in I need to remove isolates an air mixer.