were ripe up to the music in history of
the place. The audience was delighted;
it is likely, however, that an “Order”
was given to keep them from being ap-
plauded and charmed. That has happened
in other places before now.

WHAT must have been the most
remarkable concert ever heard in
Carnegie Hall took place last Satur-
day. Mr. Damrosch’s follow was a
triumph, but the real triumph came
from N. K. Metronome (I believe that
is his name) and his orchestra. The pro-
gramme was directed by Leni Adler.

The first number on the programme—a thing
which with a crisp performance of Pro-
kofieff’s “Classical Symphony” —was
wonderfully airy, bringing relief against
the weight that followed. It was a re-
markable feature on pain was that
Mr. Metronome had brought from Eu-
rope last week was Karl Storz’s sym-
phony. The symphony was a big one, but it
was played with such precision and
chestonian and pruning phrases, but
the orchestra responded to his direction
as well players by a precedent that I
believe has never been heard before in
expert direction, and the latest instance
of this is Mr. Metronome’s concert last
Saturday night.

IT is charming to recall that when
Mr. Damrosch first introduced Wagner’s
“The Testament of Wilhelm” at Car-
negie Hall, it was a revelation. The
scenes from the opera of “The Master-
singers” were given with such feeling
and tenderness, and when Mr. Adler
led the orchestra in the final scene, it
seemed as though the audience had been
transported to another world.

Mr. Metronome has brought with him
a number of new works from Europe,
including a suite by Jean Sibelius,
which was played with great feeling and
precision. The suite is a series of short
pieces that are all very beautiful and
expressive. Mr. Metronome also per-
formed a concerto by Anton Webern,
which was quite unlike anything I have
ever heard before. It was a very mod-
ern piece, but it was still very moving
and powerful.

Mr. Metronome is a very talented
conductor, and he has brought a new
dimension to the concert scene in New
York. He is also a very generous man,
and he has given many young musicians
a chance to perform with his orchestra.
He is a true artist, and I am sure that
he will continue to delight audiences for
many years to come.

Marlboro
The Graduate of Distinction



GS028054