COUNTRY KITCHEN
By Marcella Adams

“This kind of thing we looked it up in a book—the recipe isn’t ours. It's from a collection called ‘Home Cookery,’ published years ago. We’ve changed it just a little, to suit our tastes.” —Marcella Hazan and Victor Hazan for Pan American Airways Food Services

Creamed Corn
1 can creamed corn (15 oz.)
½ cup milk
¼ teaspoon nutmeg

Mashed Potatoes
2 lbs. potatoes, peeled
½ cup butter
¾ cup milk
Salt and pepper to taste

Butter-Braised Onions
3 large onions, thinly sliced
2 tablespoons butter
Salt and pepper to taste

Creamed Spinach
1 lb. frozen spinach, thawed and squeezed dry
¼ cup cream
Salt and pepper to taste

Waterpan Green Beans
1 lb. green beans, trimmed
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon black pepper

Butter-Braised Cabbage
1 medium head cabbage, cored and shredded
2 tablespoons butter
Salt and pepper to taste

Parmesan Potatoes
2 lbs. potatoes, peeled
¼ cup olive oil
Salt and pepper to taste

Waterpan Peas
1 lb. frozen peas
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon black pepper

Creamed Corn: Combine creamed corn and milk in a saucepan. Heat through. Season with nutmeg. Serve immediately.

Mashed Potatoes: Boil potatoes until tender. Drain, mash, and add butter and milk. Season with salt and pepper.

Butter-Braised Onions: Melt butter in a skillet. Add onions and cook slowly until golden brown. Season with salt and pepper.

Creamed Spinach: Combine spinach, cream, salt, and pepper in a saucepan. Heat through. Serve immediately.

Waterpan Green Beans: Bring water to a boil in a saucepan. Add green beans, salt, and pepper. Cook until tender. Drain.

Butter-Braised Cabbage: Melt butter in a skillet. Add cabbage and cook slowly until tender. Season with salt and pepper.

Parmesan Potatoes: Cut potatoes into sticks. Heat olive oil in a skillet. Add potatoes, salt, and pepper. Cook until golden brown. Serve immediately.

Waterpan Peas: Bring water to a boil in a saucepan. Add peas and salt. Cook until tender. Drain.



Nobody
has the Carlton
Combination.

1. Lowest tar.
Lowest
nicotine.

2. 
“The taste
that’s right.”

Carlton
LOWEST SOFT PACK

1 mg. tar
0.1 mg. nic.

U.S. Govt. Test Method confirms of all king size soft packs:

Carlton is lowest.

SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide.