CAMEL PAGE

Society Blue
Stella Blue presents an evening of
entertainment every Saturday night at the
legendary Washington Avenue club.
Featuring the music of “The Blues Machine”
and special guest appearances. Stella Blue is
the only place in town where you can hear
“Live Women” and his signature piano. The
show starts promptly at 9:00 PM. Come early
for dinner and drinks.

1651 Meridian Avenue X32-4788

STELLA BLUE

clubs

Groove Jet
A new sound in town! Groove Jet is a fusion of
rock, jazz, soul, and funk. Every Friday night at
the Washington Avenue club. Featuring the
music of “The Groove Jets” and special guest
appearances. Groove Jet is the only place in
town where you can hear “Live Music”. The show
starts promptly at 9:00 PM. Come early for
dinner and drinks.

1651 Meridian Avenue X32-4788

GROOVE JET

Jazid
Don’t miss Jazid! A new sound in town! Every
Friday night at the Washington Avenue club.
Featuring the music of “The Jazid Band” and
special guest appearances. Jazid is the only
place in town where you can hear “Live Music”.
The show starts promptly at 9:00 PM. Come early
for dinner and drinks.

1652 Washington Avenue 678-5372

JAZID

Polly Esther’s
Polly Esther's is serving up a new sound in town!
Every Saturday night at the Washington Avenue
club. Featuring the music of “The Polly Esther’s
Band” and special guest appearances. Polly
Esther’s is the only place in town where you can
hear “Live Music”. The show starts promptly at
9:00 PM. Come early for dinner and drinks.

1652 Washington Avenue 678-5372

POLLY ESTHER'S

Society Hill
Rock by popular demand for a Better World! Lester Sears
and his band are back in town! Every Friday night at the
Washington Avenue club. Featuring the music of “The
Lester Sears Band” and special guest appearances.
Society Hill is the only place in town where you can hear
“Live Music”. The show starts promptly at 9:00 PM.
Come early for dinner and drinks.

1652 Washington Avenue

Jane’s Sports Bar
It's a good time to be alive! Jane’s features your every
night entertainment with live music. Every Friday night at the
Washington Avenue club. Featuring the music of “The
Jane’s Band” and special guest appearances. A wide
flour menu, high-top tables, darts and video
games.

1652 Washington Avenue

JANE'S

Bait Co.
A new sound in town! Bait Co. is a rock and roll
experience. Every Saturday night at the Washington
Avenue club. Featuring the music of “The Bait Co.
Band” and special guest appearances. Bait Co. is the
only place in town where you can hear “Live Music”.
The show starts promptly at 9:00 PM. Come early for
dinner and drinks.

1652 Washington Avenue

BAIT CO.

Coral Reefer
Coral Reefer is serving up a new sound in town! Every
Friday night at the Washington Avenue club. Featuring
the music of “The Coral Reefer Band” and special guest
appearances. Coral Reefer is the only place in town
where you can hear “Live Music”. The show starts
promptly at 9:00 PM. Come early for dinner and drinks.

1652 Washington Avenue

CORAL REEFER

27th Wall
27th Wall is serving up a new sound in town! Every
Saturday night at the Washington Avenue club.
Featuring the music of “The 27th Wall Band” and
special guest appearances. 27th Wall is the only place
in town where you can hear “Live Music”. The show
starts promptly at 9:00 PM. Come early for dinner
and drinks.

1652 Washington Avenue

27TH WALL

1652 Washington Avenue