60's

Kool #893
ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY
5/28/89

GET PEPPER USHERS IN ALBUM ROCK

6/11/62 — Save for the odd snatches con-
cert album, Pop LP’s had generally nerved
the music business. But when a group as
well in place as The Beatles finally es-
tablished the album as art form by refus-
ing to release singles off “Sgt. Pepper's
Lonely Hearts Club Band,” which fans
believed word that the only way to hear it’s straight
through, "They played it at midnight on the radio station.”
“I remember Patti Smith, and my friends sat up and
waited. When 'A Day In The Life' came on for the first time at
like 12:30... I’d never heard anything like that." Miller had we-
pt. “It was a revelation. It changed everything.”
The Fab Four had broken barriers with their use of guitars,
effects, musical hurly burlyesque, alterations of voice and
sound, the whole world ending with an orchestral bang. Bang!

ROLLING STONE Goes to Press 10/18/67

As the printing press howled up and the cham-
pagne flowed, Waller, a 21-year-old New T magazine editor
named Steve Miller hammered down a wide tan-
gible sense of what Rolling Stone stood for. “We profolaimed,
“but also about the things that just about the music embraces.”
Indeed, others were doing it too: Crawdaddy, Frond, Village Voice and
Rolling Stone’s own voice for a new generation of rock
publishing studios; a scene Miller called "the beginning of
a whole new way to look at culture."

PARSONS' Date With
Destiny

FEBRUARY '68

Although rock and country once stared un-
comfortably at each other from opposite
sides of a high fence, that began to change
when the Byrds’ “Girl” (circa Hillman, in line at a
Beverly Hills bank) were approached by
“a sweet young man.” The 21-year-old
son-of-Gram Parsons, a Southerner who
dreamed of merging jangle with twang. A
few weeks later, he found himself (left) fill-
ing Parsons landed an audition with the Byrds, during which the
singer-songwriter burst into a Buck Owens tune. “I looked at each
other and said, ‘Well, that’s it.’ ” The result was Nothin’ to Hide,
the 1968 album that forged the round and solid rock of country rock. Rarely
has the phrase "taking it to the bank" reverberated so loudly. -Mark 29

3045131384

ANNOUNCING THE NEW STEREO ALBUMS FROM
ATCO/LEVERTON — “THE BEST OF” SERIES!
(A long-awaited collection of early hits from The Kingsmen,
The Count Five, The Standells and others. Available at your
record store.)