A word to nonsmokers

(about working together)

Whenever you work—even if you’re in a billboard factory—you work with smokers and always have.

There's nothing remarkable about that. Forty percent of the people around you are smokers and sixty% are nonsmokers. Still, we all work together and enjoy our jobs together.

Lately, however, we’ve all become super-sensitive to each other and to each other’s habits. And that’s not bad.

We've heard many things. Things like crowded elevators, to take the simplest example!—where smoking is not appropriate. In closed and private places, the ardent courtesy of “Do you mind if I smoke?” has become more general. We believe, have become more generally conscious of that courtesy. The occasional request for a lighted match or cigarette or cigar, in our opinion, is as quickly granted as any other favor. Be a thoughtful smoker as you are a nonsmoker.

Nevertheless there are some people—anti-smokers—who insist that we all must never be satisfied with our sensible accommodations to each other. They want us to work together at all. Instead they want to segregate us by law—literally to build walls between us—and considerable expense, in places where we work, shop, eat or just go to amuse ourselves.

We know that anti-smokers do not represent the great majority of nonsmokers. And the anti-smokers know it, too. But there is a danger they will think they do.

“When I went to the legislature,” says one anti-smoking lobbyist, “they thought I had 10,000 people behind me. That was a laugh! It was just me. I had the law passed by myself.”

If it is a laugh for the anti-smoker, it is no joke for the rest of us for we must all, smokers and nonsmokers alike, pay the cost of such foolish laws. All of us are worse when any one of us is denied freedom of choice.

We don’t think that over the long run, that's going to happen. We think that, like our board painters, we go on working together—until we get the job done.

THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE
1716 K St., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20006

Freedom of choice
is the best choice.

2051179