250 053670

In The Clouds B.



S-5186



(Continued from previous page)

...the most important thing is to keep the faith, and never give up hope. Even when things seem darkest, there is always a light at the end of the tunnel. And if you can hold onto that light, you will eventually find your way through.”

“But what if I don’t want to go back?” she asked, her voice barely above a whisper. “What if I like it here? What if I don't want to be a princess anymore?"

The old woman smiled gently. "Then you don't have to. This is your choice, Elara. You are the queen of your own destiny.”

Elara looked around at the beautiful garden, at the sparkling fountains and the lush greenery. It was everything she had ever dreamed of. But it wasn’t real. It was a dream, a fantasy. And she knew that if she stayed here, she would be forever trapped in a gilded cage.

“I want to go back,” she said finally, her voice stronger this time. “I want to see my family again. I want to help them.”

The old woman nodded approvingly. "Then let us begin."

She raised her hands and began to chant an ancient incantation. The air around Elara shimmered and swirled, and she felt a strange sensation of lightness, as if she were floating. 

Suddenly, everything went black.

When Elara opened her eyes, she was lying on the cold stone floor of the castle dungeon. Her head throbbed, and her body ached. But she was home.

Her parents rushed to her side, embracing her tightly. They had been so worried about her, fearing that she was lost forever. 

“Elara! You’re safe!” her mother cried, tears streaming down her face. “We thought we would never see you again.”

“I'm here, Mama,” Elara said, hugging her back fiercely. "I'm home."

Her father knelt beside her and took her hand. “What happened? How did you get out of the enchanted forest?”

Elara looked up at him, a faint smile playing on her lips. “An old woman helped me,” she said. “She told me that I am the queen of my own destiny.”

Her parents exchanged puzzled glances, but they didn’t press her for details. They were just grateful to have their daughter back.

In the days that followed, Elara slowly began to recover from her ordeal. She spent hours talking to her parents, telling them about her adventures in the enchanted forest and the magical creatures she had encountered. 

She also learned a valuable lesson: that true happiness is not found in material possessions or fleeting pleasures, but in love, family, and helping others.

And so, Elara returned to her life as a princess, but she was no longer the same girl who had wandered into the enchanted forest. She was stronger, wiser, and more compassionate than ever before. 

She dedicated herself to serving her people, using her newfound knowledge and experience to make their lives better. And she never forgot the old woman who had helped her find her way home.



(Continued on next page)