Some people are saying America needs a lot of new laws restricting smoking. Before you decide, you should know this:

Other people’s smoke has never been shown to

cause disease in

non-smokers.

You've probably heard anti- against smoking. Some of it is quoted in the box at the right.
smoking groups calling for more laws against smoking in public. Certainly smokers and non-
Because, they say or imply, it’s a smokers can sometimes annoy proven fact that smoke diseases one another. But what’s needed to people who are non-smokers. solve that problem is more cour-
But the fact is, it simply has teous, not more laws. never been shown that smoke causes disease in non-smokers. More and more Americans are coming to believe that govern-
There's what an eminent doc- ment interference is the answer tor who was an advisor to the to every problem. We agree. Surgeon General’s Committee National Tobacco Association.
was quoted saying in 1976: "In “The detailed statement of the expert quoted veral years there is no med- above does not necessarily reflect our view- ical proof that non-smokers ex- ment. But you will find it—and much more posed to cigarette smoke in testimony—in the free booklet ‘Smoke and ordinary ways much... ”  the Non-Smoker’ which you can obtain by send-
There's a man with testimonies ing ten (10) cents to the National Tobacco As- like that from government agen- sociation, 123 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, Illi- cies, other doctors, researchers, nois.  Continue to smoke if you like it—it medical practitioners. Much of it shouldn’t kill you.”
is about how they feel about the
problem of smoking and what is being done

What the experts say:

Dr. Edwin R. Fisher, professor of pathology at the University of Pittsburgh, author of 45 scientific papers, has written a care- ful review of the literature confirming the con- clusions that “there is no evidence to date that inhaled smoke does more than allow the one to conduct his activities and increases chances of respiratory illness in non-smokers.”

Dr. T.E. Stewart, vice president of the American Cancer Society, said: "I do not believe there’s any speed at which a non- smoker can get cancer from secondhand smoke."

Dr. Jonathan Rhodes, former president of the American Cancer Society, said in 1975: “To my knowledge, there is no scientific fact actually harmful to smokers.”

Prof. H. Schivelewien, of The Geneva Heart Institute, has written that "the present state of our knowledge passive smoking does not cause physiological harm."

Dr. Richard R. Noyes, former president of the American Medical Association, said: “I should feel guilty if you quit it (smoking) because of what I have said or done.”

(12-800-396-4574)
National Tobacco Association
123 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill. 60602