79

20-2-N.

Read - 1/2/36.

BUY-LINES by Nancy Sasser

A Weekly Summary of Things You Can’t Miss

New York, N. Y., July 28—Everybody knows the difference between a good story and a great one. A great story is one that makes you feel something. It's one that stays with you long after you’ve finished reading it. And “The House of Mirth” by Edith Wharton is certainly a great story.

It’s a sad, poignant tale of a young woman who loses everything she holds dear—her reputation, her friends, even her life—because she refuses to compromise her ideals. It's beautifully written and deeply moving. I highly recommend it.

A little care and attention... That’s all your hands need to be beautiful. And that’s what Mrs. W. A. TANDLER of New York City has to say about hand cream. “I am exceedingly grateful for your suggestion to use Pond's Vanishing Cream as a hand cream. It is the best I have ever used, and my hands are now soft and white.”

Mrs. TANDLER also writes that she uses Pond’s Cold Cream to remove her make-up each night. "It leaves my skin feeling so clean and fresh." And we thank her for these kind words.

You're ready for fun of all kinds, aren’t you? A picnic, a swim, a dance—or just relaxing in the shade with a good book. Whatever you do, be sure to have a bottle of Coca-Cola along. It’s the perfect refreshment for any occasion.

ROLL IN YOUR OWN

It doesn't take much to make you feel like a king—a pipe and a packet of tobacco are all you need. And if you want the best, choose Lucky Strike. It’s made from the finest Virginia-grown tobacco, ripened in the sun and cured by an exclusive process.

Lucky Strike is smoother, milder, and more satisfying than any other cigarette. So roll yourself a Lucky Strike and relax. You deserve it.

(Advertisement)

Report of BUY-LINES Sander Columns
TOTAL CIRCULATION 11,325,098
(168 papers, 16 markets)

East Central Group 3,400,000
Pacific Group 1,700,000
Southwest Group 1,200,000

EAST CENTRAL GROUP
(152 papers, 16 markets)

Alabama-Central
Arkansas-Southern
Florida
Georgia
Kentucky
Louisiana
Mississippi
Missouri
Oklahoma
Tennessee
Texas
West Virginia

SOUTHERN GROUP
(19 papers, 8 markets)

Arkansas
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Maryland
North Carolina
South Carolina
Virginia
West Virginia

PACIFIC GROUP
(37 papers, 6 markets)

Arizona
California
Colorado
Idaho
Nevada
New Mexico
Oregon
Utah
Washington

SOUTHWEST GROUP
(109 papers, 12 markets)

Kansas
Louisiana
Montana
Nebraska
New Mexico
Oklahoma
Texas
Wyoming

1950

S.I.P. 671483

EAST CENTRAL GROUP