1 (617) St. 12:30pm. State Senator Tina
Czervinski Smith and community leaders
discuss the impact of proposed legislation
on civic candidates for governor Peter Verone,
and other local issues. Free. Cambridge Arts
Council lecture series on Architecture
and Design.

Cambridge Public Library, 775 Massachusetts
Ave., Cambridge. $10, advance; $12,
door. Set sail to discover newly discovered art
works in Venice. Join us for a unique exploration of this
historic city and its artistic treasures. Learn about
the history of Venetian glassmaking, marvel at the
incredible techniques used to create beautiful
mosaic and glassware.

South Asian Americans and the
American Dream: A Community
Conversation. 7pm. Harvard Club Cambridge,
26 Oxford St., Cambridge. $35. Join us for a
conversation with Dr. Vivek Murthy, the 21st Surgeon
General of the United States, as he discusses his
new book, “Together.” Dr. Murthy will share insights
into the challenges and opportunities facing South
Asian Americans in the U.S., and offer strategies
for building stronger communities.

Free. Film screening: "The Biggest Little Farm."
8pm. Broad Stage, 1308 Main St., Santa Monica.
$15. A documentary film about a couple who
leave their city jobs to start a farm in Southern
California. Follow their journey as they learn the
hard way that farming is more difficult than they
imagined.

The Coolidge Corner Theatre’s annual
“Bad Movie Night” series continues with
"Troll 2." 10:30pm. The Coolidge Corner Theatre,
280 Harvard Ave., Brookline. $12. Join us for a
night of cheesy special effects and ridiculous
dialogue as we celebrate the worst movie ever made.

ArtSci: A Dialogue in Art
and Science. 6:30pm. MIT Museum, 284 Main St.,
Cambridge. $15, advance; $18, door.
Set sail to discover newly discovered art works in Venice. Join us for a unique exploration of this
historic city and its artistic treasures. Learn about
the history of Venetian glassmaking, marvel at the
incredible techniques used to create beautiful
mosaic and glassware.

Walking Tours
Glory Days Tour. 10am. Meet in front
of the Boston Public Library. $25. Join us for a
historical walking tour of downtown Boston. Learn
about the events that led up to the American
Revolution, and see some of the most important
landmarks in the city.

Medical Research Tour. 2pm. 701
Worcester St., Framingham. $30. A guided tour
of the research facilities at UMass Medical School.
Learn about the cutting-edge research being done
to combat diseases and improve human health.

Adventure awaits! 2pm & 6:30pm. All
ages welcome. Starting Point: Boston Common,
near the Brewer Fountain. $18.

Tour the woods! Guided walk, community
garden tour, and nature crafts for families.
Meet at the Jamaica Plain Community Center,
777 Centre St., Jamaica Plain. Free. 10am-1pm.
Sponsored by the Emerald Necklace Conservancy.

The Boston Antiques Show. 10am.
Sheraton Boston Hotel, 39 Dalton St., Boston.
$25, general admission; $40, Friday preview
night. A juried show featuring fine antiques,
vintage jewelry, and decorative arts from around
the world.

Around Town



A R T S & C U L T U R E | H O M E & G A R D E N | F O O D & D R I N K 17




at the Coolidge Corner film festival. Join us for a
screening of “The Last Picture Show,” followed by
a Q&A with director Peter Bogdanovich, where he details interviews with Holly Hunter
and Jeff Bridges. $15. Cambridge Arts Council lecture series on Architecture
National Congress of
Black Law Enforcement Faculty
New York
International Orchid Show
Ringling Bros. & Bailey Circus
Walking Tours

Glory Days Tour. 10am. Meet in front
of the Boston Public Library. $25. Join us for a
historical walking tour of downtown Boston. Learn
about the events that led up to the American
Revolution, and see some of the most important
landmarks in the city.

Medical Research Tour. 2pm. 701
Worcester St., Framingham. $30. A guided tour
