HEALTH

A fresh look
at non-toxic ways
to clean house
By Elara Wells

Want to keep the air inside your home fresher and healthier during this winter? There are simple things you can place from using some of the old kitchen cleaning products. As reported in “Better Homes & Gardens,” in Delores Meyer’s article, "The Non-Toxic Home,” it's easy to make a difference.
Many household cleaners contain chemicals found in cleaning supplies, paints, and even furniture. These include pesticides, solvents, and other household and personal care products that can cause health problems.

The solution? Stay mild, don’t be afraid to experiment with natural alternatives. Frequent colds, fatigue symptoms, and allergies may be linked to indoor air pollution.
When you are chronically ill and the doors and windows are tightly closed, you're not getting fresh air.

One way to reduce the pollutant level is to keep your home well-ventilated. Open a window or door for at least 15 minutes each day. This will help remove stale air and bring in fresh air.
Also, be sure to ventilate when using cleaning products are the only thing you can do to clean up. Here’s how to make your own non-toxic cleaners:

Lemon-mint all-purpose cleaner: Mix 1 cup water, ½ cup lemon juice, and 2 tablespoons of mint extract in a spray bottle.
Pine-lemon disinfectant: Combine 1 cup pine oil, ½ cup lemon juice, and 1 teaspoon borax in a spray bottle.
Good rooms to clean are for kitchens and bathrooms.

For heavy-duty cleaning, use a solution of baking soda and water. For example, you can scrub stubborn stains from sinks and tubs with this mixture.

To remove grease from kitchen surfaces, sprinkle baking soda on the area, then add a little water to form a paste. Let it sit for 15 minutes before scrubbing.

To clean floors, mix ½ cup vinegar with 1 gallon of warm water. Mop as usual.

For stubborn stains on carpets, try sprinkling salt on the stain and letting it dry overnight. Vacuum up the salt in the morning.

SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Smoking Causes Cancer, Heart Disease, And Stroke Injury, Premature Birth, And Low Birth Weight.

When you’ve been there and back

[Image of a man sitting at a table with a newspaper]

“I turned out to be Madam Wu.”
—The Man Whopper an interview.

Miriam Wager: What a revelation!

She says: “There was a time when I thought I would never work again.”

Send your questions to:
Miriam Wager
P.O. Box 1426
Hollywood, CA 90210

TRUE GOD

THE RIGHT TASTE. RIGHT NOW.

87066788