Robert E. Troup's, Sr.
5536 Adelina Court
Agoura Hills, CA 91301
818-597-8737

January 2, 1999

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem, NC 27102

ATTN: Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer

Dear Sir or Madam,

I am a 53 year old male born in 1946. I have been smoking Winston cigarettes for 42 years, since age 11. Needless to say, I have been, and I am currently addicted to your brand of cigarettes and nicotine.

Please allow me this opportunity to profile my smoking history for the past 42 years for purposes of edification [I write this letter while going through the withdrawal of nicotine addiction for the 25th time.] I have been hypnotized numerously, injected with various “blocker” chemicals, used patches, joined stop-smoking clubs, you name it. I have tried it all more than once. Now I’m trying again, but this time I’m going to do it because quite frankly, I’m pissed off…big time. You might be laughing saying to yourself, “so it took him 42 years to figure out that nicotine is addictive”? Not on your life. I've smoked and knew I was addicted, because try as I might, I just couldn’t quit. I went through hell every time and put my family through hell as well.

Here is the bottom line, and you might take real hard notice, because it took me so long to get mad, you can bet your ass that I'm now on a mission to stop you from contaminating youngsters, (especially my new grandson) from becoming addicted to tobacco. It seems as though money talks in this world, and you are about to understand that one individual can cause as much financial pain than your group of hotshot lawyers can defend. It’s kinda like y’all have been lying to the public and dancing around the truth all these years. Well gentlemen, I've decided to play my little game and now I know the rules on how to play to win.

Enclosed is my first invoice for nicotine treatment for which you are solely responsible. But standby boys, it’s about to get better.

By your own admission, you altered the amounts of nicotine and other additives and now use a bullsh*t marking ploy that your brand of cigarettes are “100% tobacco (W) no additives”. When does it all stop ? Will you go no end to hurt and keep lying so your product will continue to poison and turn a profit then?

5276.1479