1984

Leland first introduced York as a "super-premium" smoke
and appeared in April of 1984. Page 6-color newspaper ads
were used and, although the copy was similar to Camel's at
white settings, perhaps more than that it started to computer
the image of a sophisticated smoker. The campaign also
included a series of print ads with a "York" name plate.
In addition to creating this extraordinary length, York sent
out samples to key opinion leaders and retailers. It was felt
that people in locations where there weren't high-volume retail
availability would be more likely to want a taste of something
different. The copy emphasized the richness of the tobacco
smoking taste." This copy approach was drawn live from Bill Milling
and it appeared through fine tobacco leaves.

1985

In the early months of '85 York continued with the 6-color BOP run
print. Copy minor changes and variations differentiated these ads
from Camel's, but the overall theme remained similar. The
York test used some vertical 2-column BOP ads depicting three
men in a bar setting. These were very well received. "The
copy was, “York for those who appreciate.”" This primary
focus, as always, the U.P.P. of York’s name receives primary
attention. The campaign continued with a series of full-page
magazine ads were run in '85. These were direct from the BOP
magazine.

1986-1988

1986 saw the brand commence a rather large scale, color magazine
campaign. This was designed to create an image of sophistication
and affluence. The copy used the title "the art of smoking."
The campaign also included a series of print ads with a “York” name
plate. A difficult problem arose when this title had an older
trademark on it, so we had to change it. We decided on
"experience a difference.” The tagline was accompanied by a dictionary-definition
style explanation of the word "experience." This copy
approach was developed by Bill Milling and appeared through
fine tobacco leaves. The campaign ran through 1988, as detailed in the
next section.



67700