CHECKLIST

Political Campaign Contribution Requests

Contributions Policy

1. Contributions may be made to individual candidate committees only.
    a. When legislature is not in session - OR -
    b. In response to fund-raiser invitation (enclose copy)
    Contributions to political organizations may be made as appropriate.
2. Contribution checks must be mailed from the Regional Office directly to the campaign committee or
    political organization with a transmittal letter from the Regional Vice President.
3. Regional Office complies with all state/local laws and reporting requirements.
4. Checks not cashed within 90 days will be queried; checks will be canceled after 180 days.

This checklist must accompany all political campaign contributions requests. Use one checklist
for each group of requests submitted for a single state at one time. Initial each statement or step
as it is completed.



Checklist for 1 request from Illinois totaling $500.00

State Local Account Charged: 1401-7720-IL02

Regional Office:
 State NOT in session Fund-raiser invitation enclosed Group
 Draft transmittal letter, requests, and checklist mailed August 8, 1997.

State Activities Headquarters:
 Requests received 8/11/97 (date)
 Requests and letter comply with state/local policy
 Senior Vice President’s signature
 Requests and checklist copied (2), original sent to Accounting (date).

Accounting:
 Checks returned to SAD Administrative Assistant (date) with checklist.

State Activities Headquarters:
 Checks stamped and copied (2) for data entry and files.
 Checks mailed to Regional Office with copy of this checklist and approval/revised draft
 transmittal letters on (date).

Regional Office:
 Checks mailed by Regional Vice President to campaign committees
 (date) with transmittal letter.
 Checklist and copy of each transmittal letter returned to Headquarters.
 Send acknowledgment letters to Headquarters upon receipt.

State Activities Headquarters:
 Checklist, check copies, and transmittal letters filed.



Revised 02/95
TIII.BC 000572