CHECKLIST

Political Campaign Contribution Requests

CONTRIBUTIONS POLICY

1. Contributions may be made to individual candidate committees only:
    a. When legislature is not in session -- OR --
    b. In response to fundraiser invitation (enclose copy)
    Contributions to political organizations may be made as appropriate.
2. Contribution checks must be mailed from the Regional Office directly to the campaign committee or political organization with a transmittal letter from the Regional Vice President.
3. Regional Office complies with all state/local laws and reporting requirements.
4. Checks not cashed within 90 days will be queried; checks will be canceled after 180 days.

This checklist must accompany all political campaign contributions requests. Use one checklist for each group of requests submitted for a single state at one time. Initial each statement or step as it is completed.



Checklist for 10 (number) requests from Missouri (state) totalling $5000

State √ or Local                                         Account Charged: 4491-772-M050

Regional Office:
State NOT in session OR Fundraiser invitation enclosed ( ) Group.
Each request completed and signed by Regional Vice President.
Draft transmittal letter, requests, and checklist mailed 8-24-93 (date).



State Activities Headquarters:
Requests received 8-25-92 (date).
Requests and letter comply with state laws and TI policy.
Each request signed by Sector Vice President.
Senior Vice President’s signature:                               (date).
Requests and checklist copied; original sent to Accounting



Accounting:
Checks returned to Sector Secretary  √3 (date) with checklist.

State Activities Headquarters:
Checks stamped and copied (2) for data entry and files.
Checks mailed to Regional Office with copy of files until approved/revised (date).

Regional Office:
Checks mailed by Regional Vice President directly to campaign committees (date) with transmittal letter.
Checklist and copy of each transmittal letter returned to Headquarters.
Send acknowledgment letters to Headquarters upon receipt.



State Activities Headquarters:
Checklist, check copies, and transmittal letters filed.
Confidential Missouri Tobacco
Litigation Case No. 972-1465     Revised 7/21/92

TIMO 004947