DR. HELMUT WAKEMAN

1. Could you please provide me with a brief biographical sketch of your educational and professional background before joining Philip Morris? Why did you come to PM and what was the general state of the research and development program at that time?

2. To what extent were you familiar with the scientific literature on the possible consequences of smoking that was relied upon by the Surgeon General’s Advisory Committee in preparing its 1964 report? Which aspects of that gathering body of literature -- if any -- caused you and your colleagues in R&D the greatest concern? How was that concern registered to upper management, in fact it was, and how receptive generally to these concerns was PM management?

3. In an October 24, 1967, memorandum to Mr. Cullman et al., you speculated that the tobacco industry might face greater trouble from charges that smoking was a major contributor to chronic obstructive lung disease than from any other health problem. To what extent do you feel PM was responsive over the years to this potential problem and how have the company’s products been modified to meet this possible charge?

4. A little more than a month before the ‘64 Surgeon General's Advisory Committee report, an intra mural memorandum regarding "Project 0100" listed as a prime goal for 1964 development of a “medically acceptable” cigarette in light of the present health attitude and added that special emphasis ought now to be placed by the smoke chemistry group on removal of polymeric hydrocarbon and selective filtration of the potentially polycyclic nitroamines even as both nicotine and phenols had been substantially reduced by research. To what extent do you feel this goal was pursued in ensuing years and how have PM’s products been modified over the past twenty-five years in ways PM acknowledged by “the present health attitude” of 1989?

5. The PM Research Center composed a memorandum dated February 18, 1964, on the significance of the Surgeon General's report of the previous month. I have a few questions in connection with this memo:
(a) Did it essentially reflect your views?

(b) One of the memo’s main objectives to the SRC’s reporter was its almost total omission of what scientists knew about the relationship between smoking and lung cancer. Did this omission reflect a decision by you or other R&D leaders to downplay the significance of that association?

(c) The memo also suggested that the Surgeon General's report would be “a great opportunity” for the industry to demonstrate its good faith efforts to reduce the hazards associated with smoking. Was this suggestion made in anticipation of litigation, and if so, how did PM act on it?

6. In a memorandum dated March 27, 1964, to Mr. Cullman, you expressed concern that the Surgeon General’s report would “create an atmosphere of fear” among smokers. Did this concern lead to any specific actions by PM?

7. Do you know who drafted the February 18, 1964, memorandum on the significance of the Surgeon General's report?



2003-2005