Attachment C

Responsible Retailer Program
Commonly asked questions from Retailers and Answers

What does “comply with the elements of the We Card program mean/What are my responsibilities?

You need to demonstrate that you responsibly sell tobacco products and that you comply with your state law. You need to post a sign that communicates to your customers the minimum age law. This sign can be from the state, where available, or from the We Card program, or any other responsible tobacco retailing program. And, you need to sign a Phillip Morris pledge card, that we will soon provide you, with indicating your intention to uphold the law and incorporate “We Card” or similar elements in your sales practices. If your state requires that a specific sign be posted, you need to post the stated required sign. And, if you suspect that a customer is a minor, you need to ask for identification. If you are not convinced that the I.D. is valid and/or that the purchaser is of proper age, you should not make the sale.

Do I have to use the We Card program signage?

No. Any comparable minimum-age signage is acceptable. We Card, however, is an educational program that includes tools to help you train your employees to uphold the law and so, we hope that you will use ALL of the materials in the We Card program that go beyond the customer signage.

How can I get a copy of the We Card program?

If you are a member of a national retail trade association (NACS, FMI, NGA, etc.) you will receive We Card program information and an order form from them shortly, so you can order a We Card program kit. If not, we will be in touch with you shortly with details about ordering the We Card program kit.

How will PM confirm compliance?

During normal and customary in-store sales calls, PM will confirm that minimum-age signage is posted in your store. PM will rely on appropriate enforcement authorities in your state to advise whether you have been fined or convicted of selling tobacco products to minors.

When you withhold merchandising benefits, do you mean money or promotions, and for how long?

All in-store promotions and promotion payments, plus where applicable, flex funds are withheld and/or suspended. Failure to comply with the elements of the We Card program will result in a one month suspension of Phillip Morris USA merchandising benefits upon a fine or conviction for selling cigarettes to a minor. A first offense will be waived for those who do participate in the program. However, the Retailer loses its eligibility for the Responsible Retailer Fund.

If Phillip Morris U.S.A. is subsequently notified by enforcement authorities of additional fines or convictions of more than a one month suspension of merchandising benefits will be imposed for each such addition fine or conviction. If a store or convicted three times within your account period.



20797758