VANTAGE DIRECT MAIL EVALUATION
(MRD # 71-0078)

QUOTA: 500 smokers from Test Area (Mail Panel)
2400 smokers from Control Area
199 Total Smokers

METHOD: The households to be called are listed on large computer
print-out sheets. The telephone numbers are also listed.

The sheets are sorted into two groups: Test (mail) and Control.
BE SURE TO MARK THE CORRECT AREA ON EVERY CARD FILLED OUT.

In this survey, we want to interview every adult smoker in the
household. Fill out a M.S. card for each smoker you interview. For
example, if you call a number and find that the husband and grown
son smoke, two different M.S. cards filled out for this household.

Use pre-numbered M.S. cards to interview the first adult smokers
its flip side to enter the names of all the adult and use
in the household (including the first smoker). Enter the family I.D.
number (upper right corner) on all other M.S. cards used to interview
smokers in that family.

MARKING CARDS

A. If you find a household where no adult smokes at least one cigarette
a day, fill out a pre-numbered M.S. card for that household showing:

1. Area
2. "Addrs." Card (Col. 2)
3. "None" under Number of Smokers (Col. 5)
4. Phone number (flip side)
5. Specific Market Area (enter as “Name” on flip side)
6. Your initials and the date

B. For the first smoker, use a pre-numbered M.S. card. It should show:

1. Area
2. "Addrs." Card (Col. 2)
3. Number of smokers in the household (including the “first smoker”)
4. On flip side, under “Smoker Names”, all the adult household
smokers’ names (including the “first smoker's” name
5. On flip side, under "This card" for, the first smoker’s name,
phone number, and Specific Market Area (e.g., San Francisco,
Santa Barbara, etc.)
6. Your initials and the date.
7. Responses to interview.
8. Family income

C. For all other smokers, use a blank M.S. card. It should show:

1. Area
2. "Other smoker" Card (Col. 2)
3. The family I.D. number taken from the “First Smoker” M.S. card
4. Flip side, under "This card," the smoker’s name, phone number,
and replies.
5. Your initials and the date.