GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR BASE DISPLAY
QUESTIONNAIRE

The Sales Department has promised management that they can conduct this survey with a quality and efficiency at least as good as professional market research interviewers. It is extremely important that you do not identify yourself to the respondent in any way with QRI branding and that you do not in any way let your voice or your manner of questioning give the respondent any idea as to how you personally feel about the subject matter. Normally, professional interviewers are not told either the name of the client or the purpose of the questionnaire in order to guard against any possibility of their opinions influencing results. For this survey you will be utilizing the name of a research firm, called Consumer Evaluation Research, Inc.

As in all professionally conducted research, a very high percentage of these interviews will be validated by an outside independent research service. This validation can only be done on those interviews in which there is a usable name and telephone number so that this validating can be conducted. Validation includes a variety of questions about the subject matter as well as when, where and how the interview was conducted and the length of time the interview took. Often these validations are analyzed by sophisticated statistical techniques.

WHERE TO INTERVIEW

Half of these interviews will be conducted on the Friday and Saturday immediately following the set-up of the display on Thursday. The other half of the interviewers will be conducted the same store after the display has been up for 10 days. You will need to use your knowledge of the time of sell through so that there still will be a display at the time of the second interview.

It is important to indicate both the date the display went up, its size and the date of the interview. We estimate that approximately 15 purchases will be made off a display per day and since this is a very short questionnaire you will not have any trouble covering most of these pur-chases. It is important that your respondent not know that he/she is being observed. You should interview the respondent after he/she has passed the check-out counter.

If in your first question you will immediately determine whether or not the person is a smoker or a non smoker. If the respondent is a non smoker you will use the white questionnaire. If the respondent is smoker you will continue to use the white questionnaire but proceed immediatly to the pink instructions for each question given below.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR ALL
OPEN-END QUESTIONS

During the interview, please ask all questions in the order they appear on the questionnaire. Do not skip any questions. If a respondent refuses to answer a question, do not pressure him/her. Simply mark “Refused” on your sheet and proceed to the next question.

Do not offer suggestions or give leading answers. Let the respondent answer freely and spontaneously. Record his/her exact words as much as possible.

If a respondent seems hesitant or unsure of how to answer, you may rephrase the question in simpler terms. However, do not add any additional information or opinions.

Be sure to maintain eye contact with the respondent throughout the interview. This will help to build rapport and encourage him/her to be more open and honest.

If you have any questions about these instructions, please consult your supervisor.

THANK YOU FOR YOUR COOPERATION!