Question #1: Do on-pack (sales force applied instantly redeemable coupons) need to be in Black & White, text only format, and if so, do they need to have the Established Name Statement (“Cigarettes”) and the Intended Use Statement (“Cigarettes - A Nicotine-Delivery Device For Persons 18 or Over”)?

Question #2: Can we offer promotional/displayed merchandise in fulfillment of our Newport Pleasure Goods Program after August 29th to consumers who redeem their proofs-of-purchase near/thru August 28 date?
CAN WE PURCHASE AFTER AUG. 29 OR PRIOR (IF IT IS LILIES FOR SHIPPED)

Question #3: Do Lorillard permanent/temporary carton and package displays have to be white? Can they be green or any other color? The displays mentioned above do not include any brand name indicators.

Question #4: Can a black and white item such as a clock serve as a point-of-sale piece or be included within a permanent point-of-sale piece? If so, is the intended use statement required?

Question #5: Lorillard belongs to numerous trade associations, i.e. National Association of Convenience Stores (NACS), American Wholesale Marketers Association (AWMA), Southern Association of Wholesale Distributors (SAWD) plus other National, Regional and State groups.

In addition our customers, i.e. McLane, Core Mark, The Eli Witt Company, Rite Aid Drug and many, many more conduct trade shows for their customers and/or managers.

Lorillard’s participation at both types of functions has included us maintaining exhibit (booth) space. These exhibits include pictures, facsimiles (advertising) of our product lines. In addition, buyers/merchandisers who visit our booth are in some cases offered, or they ask for, product show samples to assist their decision making process.

These functions are not open to the general public, however, sometimes attendees bring family members under age of 18.

     865419
Is above current advertising acceptable as described about and can “product show samples” be given to attendees’s 21 and over for their decision making process?