TAKE 10

Supplemental Media Questions and Suggested Responses

1. It was recently reported that Newport cigarettes are the brand of choice for teens. Is Lorillard concerned that it manufactures cigarettes that appeal to younger audiences?

I really can’t speak to Lorillard’s product marketing, but as a parenting expert I believe that parents must teach their kids that smoking any kind of cigarette has potential health consequences. That's why the "Take 10" program is so crucial – it gives parents the tools to start a discussion about not smoking with their kids before it even becomes an issue.

2. What is your opinion of “safer cigarettes?”

I am not a medical expert, so I cannot comment on how “safer cigarettes” would impact a smoker’s health. I would advise parents to encourage their kids to not smoke any type of cigarette. Taking 10 minutes to start a dialogue on not smoking is a great way to start.

3. With the growing Hispanic population in the U.S., why are Take 10 educational materials offered only in English? Are there plans to Spanish version?

As the Take 10 program is still in its infancy, our intention was to offer the information in the broadest means possible. Hopefully, the program materials will ultimately be available for all parents, regardless of the language they speak.

My company, Active Parenting Publishers, currently offers many of our educational materials in both Spanish and English – a very effective method in reaching a large number of parents.

4. Does Lorillard intend to take the Take 10 initiative to an international level?

Because the Take 10 program is in its infancy, we are focusing all of our efforts domestically. However, knowing that smoking among teens is a worldwide problem, we think it is important that all parents—no matter where—know how important it is to talk to their kids about not smoking.

5. How do you measure the effectiveness of the program? Is it working?

The Take 10 effort is still a relatively new initiative. As the program gains momentum over the years, we can better evaluate its impact. What I do know is that education works. I’ve been developing parent education programs for more than 25 years. That's why the Take 10 program focuses on giving parents the tools they need to educate their kids about smoking before it becomes an issue.

991135638