MEMORANDUM

TO: A. R. Nagle
CC: R. O. Stewart
C. S. Mulje

FROM: C. Broehl

DATE: March 21, 1977

SUBJECT: Qualitative Research

This recommends that the Brand Groups have the option to conduct qualitative research for product concept and advertising campaign generation/formulation through its advertising agencies or new products consultants.

Rationale

The Brand Groups have the primary responsibility to develop product concepts and advertising campaigns; Marketing Research has the primary responsibility to evaluate those concepts/campaigns developed. The basic rationale for my proposal deals with delegating authority to the Brand Groups commensurate with that responsibility within, at the same time, not conflicting with Marketing Research’s responsibility.

To meet its responsibilities for concept/campaign development, the Brand Groups work through advertising agencies and new products consultants. The quality of the concepts/campaigns developed is highly dependent upon the combined judgment, intuition and creative capability of the individuals involved. That quality also is on what the individual's performance is based.

Because of those factors, I believe the Brand Groups, who have the ultimate accountability, also should have the latitude to determine who will conduct qualitative research.

Qualitative research is highly interpretational. That is its prime deficiency; however, that is its prime benefit to the Brand Groups. It is in their interpretation which is important since it is they who judge a product concept or campaign. It is their judgment on which they rely in recommending concepts/campaigns for evaluation. Thus, I believe it is appropriate that the Brand Groups should have the authority to determine their creative information needs, design how that information will be obtained, and interpret the results.

To exercise this authority, the Brand Groups should have the option to select who conducts qualitative research. The options are: RSW Marketing Research or an advertising agency, or a new products consultant. It is not beyond our consideration.

68013612