DE 218 L (9/51)

BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
INTERNAL CORRESPONDENCE
April 26, 77

TO R. HAMMERSMITH
DEPT.
C.C. to A. R. Nagle
R. O. Stewart
E. A. Willets, III

FROM F. E. McKeown/gd DATE 4/22/77
SUBJECT KOOL Naturals (Low “Tar”) - Extended Use Test

This confirms our discussion of physical concerning the development of a 9mg. KOOL Naturals product. This product has the following objectives:

1. The maximum amount of taste and flavor that can be yielded within the limitations of 9mg. design.

2. The use of raw material components which will yield the highest possible performance on objective characteristics. Our objective here is to be at parity with Philip Morris on physical characteristics.

3. To utilize porous plug wrap and porous tipping in order to accrue the copy benefits of a “unique filter that removes elements that makes smoke taste hot and harsh.”

4. That cost was not to be a key determinant in the development of this product since without Duolite, our margins are substantially better than the prior version of KOOL Naturals. Further, we agreed not just to take an extant B&W brand tobacco section and put the new components on, but rather to utilize components that will yield acceptable performance on the above three objectives.

Our progress plan on this project is two-fold:

1. To conduct as soon as possible, an extended use test utilizing 160,000-200,000 cigarettes per our discussion. Our understanding is that we can have an internal product available without external testing for this project by late May or early June if appropriate priorities are set.

2. Parallel to this extended use test, we would take 2 or 3 versions of this product into consumer product test where we would compare it against Merit Non-Menthol.

The above recognizes that within the New Products Coordinating Committee / PDC structure, we get appropriate priority established for this project that allows you to target your resources in a timely manner against this important priority.



M 13
6210205:42