MEMORANDUM

The American Tobacco Company

To Mr. E. S. Harlow DATE August 8, 1963

FROM Analytical Chemistry Section, Group I.
E. C. Cogbill, B. F. Blilley, E. F. Campbell & E. S. Cho

SUBJECT Progress Report - March 1962 to July 1963.

During this period, this Group has assisted the Filter-Tip Research Section with analyses of carbon impregnated filter elements for flavor components, and with other special determinations. To obtain data needed in support of the patent application on the flavor-impregnated carbon filter, a study was made of the ability of MONTCLAIR cigarettes to retain menthol when exposed to heated air under simulated smoking conditions, and a comparison made with a conventional type nonfiltered cigarette treated in a similar manner. Also, the retention of menthol by IF filter rods when exposed to elevated temperature for brief periods was tested.

Organic elemental microanalyses and special smoke analyses have been furnished as required to other Groups in the Research Division. Three collaborative tests of smoke analysis methods were made for the Analytical Methods Committee of the Tobacco Chemists’ Research Conference.

A technique was developed for the determination of vanillin in MONTCLAIR filter rods and in other carbon-impregnated rods containing this flavor. Vanillin may be eluted from the rods with chloroform, extracted into alkaline solution, and estimated by its absorbance at 347 mμ. Menthol,cardamom, and certain other flavors being considered for use do not interfere. Menthol may be determined on the same MONTCLAIR rod sample by analysis of the chloroform extract by the p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde colorimetric method.

Preliminary experimental work has been carried out to determine if the use of carbon tips impregnated with nicotine or nicotine salts may be feasible as an efficient means of increasing the nicotine content of smoke solids. With the collaboration of Mr. Bateman, filter rods containing blank IF-type carbon were impregnated with nicotine under various test conditions, and smoke analyses made on cigarettes employing the resulting filter elements. Transfers to the smoke of about 22% of the nicotine adsorbed on the carbon have been achieved.

hc