December 6, 1974

CONFIDENTIAL

Mr. Robert K. Heimann, President

V. B. Lougee, III, Research and Development Director

Reference is made to your memorandum of November 19 in which "tar" and/or nicotine values were requested for filter cigarettes, smoking tobacco, cigars and chewing tobacco.

The average “tar” and nicotine delivered by all filter cigarettes listed on the FTC Report dated September 1974 is 15.9 mg “tar” and 1.06 mg nicotine. Using the Maxwell Report for 1974 projected sales, the sales-weighted average for filter brands is 17.0 mg "tar" and 1.17 mg nicotine.

There is no accepted standard smoking procedure for “tar” and nicotine delivery from pipes; however, we have a method developed in this laboratory several years ago. Using this technique and employing the most popular pipe size and shape sold in the United States (medium full bent) and a sample size of two grams of tobacco, we obtained data from Prince Albert, HALF AND HALF, and Sir Walter Raleigh tobaccos. These brands represent approximately 75% of the popular price domestic smoking tobacco market. From these brands, the average “tar” and nicotine delivery per pipeful of tobacco was 61 mg "tar" and 6.5 mg nicotine. Corresponding data was obtained with a medium size straight stem pipe.

Although there is no accepted standard smoking procedure for cigars, a proposed method has been published. We used this method and obtained data on the most popular shaped 1¼” cigars: White Owl Invincible and ROI-TAN Perfectos Extra, which averaged 37 mg of “tar” and 1.5 mg of nicotine per cigar. We understand that the straight shape may be the fastest growing segment of the 1¼” cigar market and could overtake the premium market. Analyses from three big sellers in this market, ROl-TAN Royals, White Owl Ranger and Muriel Coronas, averaged 46 mg “tar” and 2.1 mg nicotine per cigar. Three popular brands of corona size, high-grade cigars (e.g., #200, Havana Imperial, and Cuasta Rey), averaged 32 mg "tar" and 1.0 mg “tar” and 1.0 mg nicotine per cigar.

The greater part of the chewing tobacco used in this country is manufactured into a so-called “long cut” form. Analyses were run on three representative brands of long cut chewing tobacco: Copenhagen, Red Seal, and Levi Garrett. These brands represent approximately 83% of the total long cut market.



