MEMORANDUM

The American Tobacco Company
A DIVISION OF AMERICAN BRANDS, INC.

DATE July 7, 1972

TO Mr. Alvin Bernstein, American Cigar

FROM John H. Hager, Research and Development Director

RE New Smoking Tobacco Imported from Denmark

This supplements our memorandum of June 30, 1972, and is intended to provide additional descriptive information about Scandinavian type smoking tobaccos imported into the United States.

Most Scandinavian tobacco factories are smaller than their counterparts in the United States. Although their basic manufacturing equipment is similar to that employed here, their casing and blending methods are generally different.

The basic Scandinavian type smoking tobacco products offer a unique blend of choice light color, high grade, full bodied, flue cured tobacco and open grained, ripe, dark-air cured smoking burley tobaccos blended with other dark tobaccos from Java, Roland and Africa for a mild, flavor rich smoke. Processed and cased stems are also added for burn and mildness.

Most of the blends manufactured in the Scandinavian countries are heavily impregnated with casing sauces and hygroscopic agents to sweeten and soften the tobacco. The tobacco is placed in molds and pressed into cakes prior to cutting into long strands. In contrast to the high-speed equipment used in manufacturing tobacco products in the United States, the Scandinavians are slow and deliberate in their manufacturing procedures and refer to their export as Cavendish tobaccos.

In order to bring out the fullness and flavor of tobacco, they utilize a great deal of steam to open the tobaccopores, than impregnate this tobacco with various sauces, after which it is bulked for a long period of time. The aged and salted tobacco is then placed in molds and subjected to extreme pressure, resulting in a very aromatic and pleasing smoke. After drying, the cakes are cut into long strands, or “cuts” as they refer to them, and cased again. Apparently, they do not have the traditional methods of uniform cutting used on the machines now employed in the United States. The tobacco is then dried, pressed and packaged for shipment. They use a very simple blending process, but their tobaccos are generally well balanced and offer a pleasant smoking experience.

The Scandinavians also produce a type of pipe tobacco known as “cut” tobacco which is manufactured in much the same manner as the cakes, except that it is not pressed into cakes. It is cut into long strands and cased for a period of time before being packaged.



JHH:js