ATX02.15.89

Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

Mr. C. H. Mulien
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Date 12/28/90

From R. S. Sprinkle, III
Senior Vice President - Research and Quality Assurance

Re: Progress Report - Product Development and Product Improvement

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

1. Project RCL - Nothing specific to report.

2. Project TC - Results of in-company taste tests indicate that “tar” delivery of CARLTON 120’s filter and Menthol cigarettes can be reduced from 6.9 to 5 mg by incorporation of an amine perforation of the filter tip without adversely affecting taste characteristics or smoking appeal.  Additional filter tips required to adapt two available on-machine perforators to 22.5-mm circumference CARLTON have been ordered. Our recommendation to modify CARLTON 120’s filter and Menthol will be forwarded in the near future.

3. Filter Cigarette Development - Laboratory analyses of 11-mg “tar” delivery project plus reduced sidestream cigarette indicate all quality parameters are satisfactory for consumer testing. The product was prepared using HALIBU Lights tobacco blend formulation, Kimberly-Clark’s sidewall paper to reduce special filter rods from American Filtrona designed to taper mainstream carbon monoxide delivery. Visual sidestream smoke of the model is reduced 54% when compared to leading competitive 100-mm cigarettes and 00-to-"tar" ratio is 1.0. SIR has been requested to conduct blind pressure testing using Marlboro Lights 100’s cigarettes.

We acknowledge Marketing's request for development of ultra low “tar” versions of MISTY Lights filter and Menthol cigaretttes. The ultra lights cigarettes will have the same physical dimensions and basic taste characteristics as the respective current lights products. Preliminary models are being prepared with tobacco blends incorporating increased levels of expande with loose bun filter rods of higher density to compensate for slower burn rate and increased ventilation in the 6-mg “tar” delivery ultra products.

ATX02.221479