M.Y.O. 629.

MEMORANDUM

The American Tobacco Company

TO Mr. E. S. Harlow DATE June 19, 1963

FROM W. Stepka

SUBJECT Nicotine Production: Suggestions for an Exploratory Program.

1. Introduction:

In my memorandum of 21 May, 1963, "Possible sources of nicotine", I compared the merits of obtaining nicotine from a specialty crop of N. rustica as against producing it from stalks left in the field. The conclusion was that if nicotine were to be produced it should be produced from a crop grown for that purpose. Recently, one more current publication which explores this very question in some detail and confirms our preliminary conclusions.

On the basis of the results presented it becomes possible to formulate a pilot program which is presented below for your consideration.

2. Summary of Prior Field Trials:

a. Experiences of the U.S.D.A., covering the period 1929-1938, in growing tobacco as a source of nicotine are collected in U.S.D.A. Technical Bulletin No. 820, June 1942. This publication is available in the A.T.C. library under catalog No. T-7445 hence only the pertinent highlights will be reiterated here.

b. In nutrition, war, Brazilien, consistently yielded 150 lbs. or more per acre when grown on fertile, moist soils. The whole plant of N. rustica can be used for extraction whereas stalks of commercial tobaccos, owing to their high degree of lignification, are not easily disrupted for extraction.

c. The comparative tests were conducted in field plots widely scattered around the country, including plots in Virginia (Bowling Green and Arlington), Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Missouri, Oregon, California, North Carolina, Tennessee and a few others. As a result a wide variety of soil and climatic conditions were compared.

d. When grown on typical soils of the dark-fired area, or in extreme southern regions, N. rustica did not outyield standard commercial varieties. However, when grown on moist land approaching well-drained river bottom lands, it yielded in excess of 100 lbs. of nicotine per acre in this region; thus 100 lbs. for the latter category?

3. Suggested Course of Action:

The project is to be pursued further, the following steps are recommended:

a. Secure sufficient N. rustica seed within the next few weeks to plant approximately 27 acres.

b. Plant in a field similar to those used in prior tests.

c. Harvest and extract at least 1 ½ acres of tobacco; analyze for nicotine content.

d. Determine cost per pound of nicotine produced.



