PRECISION MICROSTAT REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. MICROFILM

COPY

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

LENN & MITCHELL, INC.

10-24-23

From: Mr. Cox
To: Mr. Lennon
Mr. Mitchell
Mr. Platch

Subject: OLD GOLD

The New York University smoke analysis is beginning to look bright.
It appears that Old Gold has a particularly favorable record in this
line and it is necessary to do everything possible to see that Old
Gold continues to be the cigarette which can easily produce the best "pull"
of flavor of all our brands.

As far as Professor Haight’s work is concerned, yet it has never been
known as far as we are aware that he has ever made a single test
that would indicate that there was any difference in the quality of
the smoke from one cigarette to another. He is now working on
a method for measuring the time that the smoke will remain in
suspension and this, of course, is an important factor in the
cigarette’s appeal. The longer the smoke remains suspended, the
more moisture there will be perceptible to the smoker, even
though it may not be a pleasant sensation.

Haight discovered this fact from an analysis of results of his
tests on various brands of cigarettes and he found that if you take
the four cigarettes under controlled conditions and allow them
to burn in a draft-free room, you can easily see that he can
show up each better than any cigarette we have ever tested.

The reason for this powerful influence of moisture on the amount
of smoke is due to the fact that the burning rate of the cigare-
tte is slowed down slightly by the moist air and thus a less
rapid combustion takes place.

But before discussing the possibilities of using this observation
to our advantage, I want to call your attention to another point at
which we can make a considerable improvement in the quality of
our Old Gold cigarettes. We have been working with our own
laboratories on a method for reducing the amount of ash that will
remain after the cigar has burned and we believe that we can
show a significant moisture content.

This affords the highlights of the original smoke analysis.



038652