J. Debodeleben
Herein a report on L-malic Acid. On Order F
Have you any ideas? Please return when finished.

TO: Dr. R. M. Ikeda April 30, 1969
FROM: R. D. Latshaw Have sent this report SDS

Purpose

During its methods development program the Analytical Services Division noted a relatively high malic acid content (7%) in bright tobacco stems. It was also determined that malic acid could be isolated from bright stems through a commercial water extraction process. Both results indicate commercial feasibility. Before proceeding to determine if an opportunity exists in it for Philip Morris – and to justify further development effort. It is the purpose of this report to analyze the market for malic acid and identify the existence, if any, of a market opportunity for Philip Morris Inc. in this market.

Research Procedure

Information generated for this report was obtained from Philip Morris Inc. Research Center personnel, trade associations and publications, governmental agencies and 1923. malic acid suppliers, a consultant firm, and a university. A complete listing of these sources is presented in Appendix A.

Summary and Conclusions

1. The Analytical Services Division of Philip Morris R & D has developed a process for extracting 1-malic acid from bright stems. The acid is recovered as a calcium salt. Further refinement of the salt to the d- form has not been attempted, although this can be accomplished. Since the process has been tested only at the laboratory level, an engineering study would be required to expand the process to a commercial scale. A patent disclosure has been made to Philip Morris attorneys.

2. The current market for 1-malic acid is as an optically active reagent in biochemical applications. Although no exact data are available, this market appears to be extremely small, a price of $20-30/pound undoubtedly limits the use of 1-malic acid, and there appear to be sufficient sources and processes to provide adequate material. Although food and beverages, chemical pharmaceuticals, and toiletries applications are potential areas suggested for 1-malic acid, its high price precludes its use in these markets.

3. A “synthetic” malic acid produced since the mid 1920’s and is isomers have been produced since 1923. This d-malic acid is currently sold at $3-$5/pound.

4. The potential market for 1-malic acid appears to be limited by its high price and availability of synthetic material.



Appendix A
Sources of Information