PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

To: Mr. R. N. Thomson Date: September 4, 1968
From: J. S. Osmalov
Subject: Discussions with Max Hausermann

My discussions with Dr. Hausermann covered the following areas:

1. Fluted plastic tip on the Parliament 100
2. High-rate filter development program
3. Microreticulated polymer program

It was to the fluted Parliament tip, our discussion
was primarily. Dr. Hausermann stated that the various
filter components had been requested from us and manufacturing
had been received. He was specifically interested in learning
more details about the extrusion process used on the
combiner and cigarette assembler. I referred him to Manufacturing
for details.

Dr. Hausermann stated that PTR was extremely interested in
getting out an entirely new product and it is his feeling that
the fluted tip could provide the basis for such a
product. He showed us the extrusion process and later dis-
cussed the benefits to be derived when this type filter was
used in combination with a carbon on top, as opposed to
a Liggett & Myers/Griffith type. Dr. Hausermann indicated
that PTR would probably be interested in establishing an
extrusion line. I obtained from Otto the name of their German
subsidiary who is equipped to do this work and gave it
through cable “in” in the day. Mr. Seligman suggested that PTR
might consider setting up a plant in Switzerland for
extrusion lines to Switzerland and then order another line
for themselves. He suggested Dr. Hausermann explore this possibility
through proper companies. Dr. Hausermann expressed
that he was interested in trying to set up a line nearest
them in starting such operations. (HEARTILY CONCUR)

Dr. Hausermann said that PTR would pay all of our expenses.

I discussed with Dr. Hausermann the development of PVC
filter material and the problems we were having with scaling
it on the equipment. He suggested we discuss it in some
detail with Mr. Rupp at PPG. He felt that cooling the material on a belt containing mold
release could be an answer to our problem, as well as
using a different configuration for the extrusion die.

JSO:db