PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

To: - Dr. W. F. Gannon date: February 22, 1978

From: - K. S. Burns

Subject: Nitrate Reduction in BL

A meeting was held at 3:00 on February 10 to review the status of various process development programs related to the above subject and to try to firm up our future plans in this area. Those in attendance were:

H. G. Burnley C. R. Hayward
K. S. Burns D. J. Kelton
W. A. Farone N. R. Rowell
W. F. Gannon W. L. Wilkinson
G. Gellatly N. R.

After extensive discussion on a number of relevant subjects, the following course of action was agreed upon:

1. Manufacturing Engineering will sample and characterize the various effluent streams from the BL plant containing significant levels of nitrates and determine which streams may be treated (by some presently undefined method) to meet EPA specifications.

2. In an initial trial, Dr. Farone and his staff have shown that reduction of the nitrate in the BL effluent by a microbiological process is feasible. They estimate that a pilot plant for this processing using the existing aeration equipment could be operational in about 12 months. Optimization studies using the pilot plant will require approximately 3-6 months after the pilot plant is operational.

3. Since the current washing/drying system process that RBD has proposed to replace the surface treatment washing/drying operation, it was decided that a better assessment of the potential energy savings from such a process was necessary. Manufacturing Engineering agreed to carry out such a study.

4. They (Manufacturing Engineering) also agreed to determine if adequate space exists at the plant to install the necessary equipment parallel to the present pilot equipment. This was considered less vital since this aspect is difficult to predict completely.

5. If the findings of the RBD pilot plant will be determined by means using the residue streams as a fertilizer, BL must conduct a series of trials determining compliance with state and federal regulations. It is expected that a reasonably consistent average 0.1% (by weight) nitrogen content would be acceptable. (The process recommended by RBD are mainly given as an example to show how the residue could be utilized; it could also have been used for other purposes.)

6. Does not have any further recommendations at this time.



N.G., Conto