PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Mr. W. F. Kuhn Date: August 13, 1975

Michael Penn

Subject: Trip Report - Mammalian Cell and Tissue Culture: Special Topics : Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., July 21-25, 1975 (Course Director: Dr. Roland M. Nardone)

The Mammalian Cell and Tissue Culture Course consisted, for the most part, of lectures covering a variety of applications of tissue culture techniques. Laboratory exercises con-
sisted of experiments dealing with radiotautography, cell synchrony,
cellular toxicity, and lymphocyte collection. The speakers, from
private and governmental institutions, spoke on particular ap-
plications of tissue culture in their research.

Summarized below are some topics discussed that I think
are of special interest to the research here at Philip Morris:

Chemical Carcinogens In Vitro - P. Donovan (N.C.I.)
P. Donovan, who has worked extensively with the "Di Paolo
Assay", spoke on the applications of tissue culture for carcino-
genesis screening. He stated that day-to-day variation in
the results of this assay can be minimized by carefully prescreening
all sera, media and trypsin. In regard to DiPaolo's system,
Donovan stated that with a slight modification - he now puts
down the X-irradiated rat cell feeder layers instead of plating
the HE 2 cells 24 hr after the feeder layers - he gets an in-
creased plating efficiency of up to 30%. Donovan credits his
quantitative and reproducible results to his careful selection
of feeder layers and his ability to keep the cell environment
stable. He discourages the use of chemicals, such as mitomycin
C, to obtain feeder layers because of the unknown effects such
chemicals may have on the cells. Donovan stated that the trans-
formed cells are able to grow to produce colonies in soft agar.
In addition, he has found no virus activity in the HE cells.

Toxicity Testing In Vitro - R. Nardone (Catholic U.)
Dr. Nardone spoke on the importance of an "ideal" toxicity
testing system and the importance of relating in vitro systems to
in vivo systems. The following is a list of suitable parameters
for the X-irradiating cells to investigate the “ideal” system:
synchronicity, maximum cell population, growth rate, viability,
sister chromatid exchange frequency, chromosomal aberrations,
gap junctional communication and induction of DNA synthesis.
He pointed out that the ideal toxicity testing system would be
one that is reproducible, rapid, and sensitive to low doses of
chemicals. He feels that a combination of several assays is
necessary to obtain a complete picture of the toxic effects of a
given chemical.