PHILLIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

To: Dr. E. B. Sanders date: January 12, 1982

From: H. Grubbs and R. Southwick

Subject: Kudzu As Tobacco Flavoring Source

In 1978, workers from the Japan Tobacco and Public Salt Corporation published an account of the constituents of an essential oil of kudzu, a plant indigenous to Japan. Investigation of the oil was prompted by a much earlier report that kudzu leaves could be a good substitute for tobacco. Of particular interest was the finding that the essential oil contained damascenone, approximately 2mg per 10kg of leaf, as well as lesser amounts of megastigmatrienone. The quantity of damascenone in kudzu is significantly greater than is found in rose flowers, where it was first discovered, or in tobacco, for which damascenone is a significant flavor contributor.

Kudzu is an introduced species currently rampant in the southeastern United States. The plant was introduced by USDA with the expectation that it would provide erosion control and cattle feed. Neither of these goals were completely successful; in particular, cattle appear to place kudzu leaves at the very bottom of their dietary preferences, somewhere between pine needles and starvation. As a consequence, the rapidly propagating kudzu plant has not had any effective natural restraints and presently covers large areas in the Southeast. In the Richmond area, which appears to lie on the northern boundary of its range, several large patches may be observed along Interstate 95 near Colonial Heights.

Prior to the onset of the growing season for kudzu, which coincided with growing interest in using damascenone as a flavor additive, we made plans to conduct a cursory longitudinal study of kudzu leaves. From information in the literature, it was not clear at what stage of leaf development the Japanese workers had obtained their material. They reported that the leaves were collected in November, 1976, in Yokohama and describe them as "aged kudzu leaves".

We determined that our requirements were a season of leaves which would be available during the complete growing season, would be exposed to minimal environmental contamination and would not be subject to treatment with herbicides. Permission was obtained to collect leaves on a site in Guilford Lake Park. This collection was made in late-November, 1978, and would appear to meet this particular requirement, although it is several months later than the Yokohama collection.

The kudzu leaves may be identified by their (unmistakable) odor and their habit.



10056049