PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA RESTRICTED DISTRIBUTION

To: Dr. W. P. Hempfling Date: May 17, 1985

From: L. H. Thompson

Subject: S/M Assay - DBC Burley(BU) Control vs DBC BU Treated

Four smokings of three samples were submitted by you for testing in the S/M assay (1). The objective of this study was to determine if the enzymatic treatment of tobacco by Genecor to remove insoluble proteins would lower the S/M activity. For this experiment, DBC BU (control) was treated with Pronase® and washed, also BU was sham treated i.e., washed only. IT CSCs from the four smokings of these handmade cigarettes were tested in strain TA98-S (2).

The preparation of the CSCS (10 mg/ml) was carried out by Charge No. 6908 person (3). The CSCS were stored at -80°C until tested. All of the CSCS were tested randomly at doses of 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, and 0.20 mg/plate according to the standard test procedures (4).

All of the control data (see addendum) were within normal ranges except for 28A which was slightly lower than normal. Each test sample demonstrated a dose-response and produced a response that was 2x background.

Table I illustrates the specific activity (S.A.) of the four smokings and also the analysis of variance (performed using "Minitab"). At the p<0.05 level of significance, the S.A.'s of both the treated and sham treated samples were lower than the DBC BU control. While this result implies that the S/M activity can be lowered by just sham treatment or washing the tobacco, Table I also shows a significant difference in the S.A.’s of the treated and sham treated; i.e., the S.A. of the Pronase® treated sample is lower. Since these data indicate that enzymatic treatment of tobacco can significantly lower S/M activity, further studies in this area may be warranted. It would be useful to also have complete filler analysis for these test samples, especially for Total N and cations; however, this data was not available for this experiment. It is recommended that such analyses be included in any future studies.

The CSCS yields (mg/g) and calculated total activities (T.A.) are reported in Table 2. Analysis of variance was also performed for the T.A. data indicating an activity of tobacco with a S.A. significantly lower than the yield of higher S.A. of the control DBC BU (and not the 2x yield) as shown in Fig. H-7, and are summarized in Table II and III.

c/s
ATB/tth
200547516