PHILLIP MORRIS INCORPORATED
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
100 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017

To: Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd Date: January 18, 1941

From: George Weissman

Subject: Milprint Pulp Contract

The December meeting of the Board of Directors of Phillip Morris Incorporated approved in principle authorization of a pulp contract to be signed by Milprint subject to clearing up two questions legal raised. The Corporate Legal Department has raised no further questions about the contract, and after speaking to each member of the Executive Committee, I have authorized Milprint to enter final negotiations with The Great Lakes Pulp and Paper Company for the purchase of 12,000 tons of pulp annually for ten years beginning in 1976.

Currently, Niconet is paying $285.00 per ton. For purposes of calculation, it could be assumed that the pulp purchased under the proposed contract will cost approximately $300.00 per ton.

The Great Lakes Pulp and Paper Company, which is controlled by the Canadian Pacific Railroad, has been a supplier to us for seven years. The relationship has been mutually satisfactory and great lakes’ reputation is excellent.

The Milprint contract is a “take and pay” contract as are the others, and the financing of the new mill will be based on this paper. The mill will have a capacity of 300,000 tons annually, 250,000 of which have already been committed to Milprint, Johnson & Johnson, Burlington Paper Company, National Cash Register, Proctor and Gamble, St. Regis Paper, Nekosa Edwards, Fox River Paper and Landon Paper.

The contract price will be the prevailing market price at the time of purchase and although there is no contract guarantee that the price paid will be the lowest price available, pulp prices have traditionally been uniform within the industry. If the mill is not in operation by 1976, we can withdraw from the contract.

This annual 12,000 tons of pulp could be used in emergencies for flip top box and soft pack production for the Phillip Morris tobacco operations.

Milprint will sign the contract since Milprint is not a legal corporation. No guarantee will be required from Phillip Morris.

At $300 per ton, this contract could total $36 million.



GW: koc





2/15/85191