PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Willie Houck Date: December 3, 1992

From: Counts, Wrenn, Nichols

Subject: Project 2703 Weekly Summary  *b*

I. Cartridge Development

Additional handsheets of 10% TiO₂ paper were received from the Paper Technology Group. Extra handsheets of 10% CaCO₃ paper were requested today, as there is some question about the acceptability of TiO₂ in overwraps. Both paper types had better opacity than the innerwrap-type paper being used.

Several samples of coated mat perforated to different porosities at K-C were received. K-C’s hole pattern is more widely spaced than the pattern used in the present cartridges. Control cartridges without perforated mat, cartridges with the lab perforated mat, and cartridges from the four levels of K-C perforated mat are being prepared for machine smoking TPM delivery.

A second set of samples has been machine smoked to compare effects of lab perforation vs no mat perforation, laminated vs unlaminated calendared overwrap, and calendared vs uncalendared laminated overwrap (POT innerwrap). TPM was greater with perforated mat. There was only a marginal difference between laminated and unlaminated calendered papers. For this particular paper, calendering also improved delivery slightly. Calendaring would have less of an effect with lower porosity overwraps. These data support the need for mat perforation; the degree of perforation needed should be better known after smoking the K-C set of perforated samples.

II. Heater Development

Heater fixtures with a center needle and fixtures with a force-fit seal in place of the o-ring seal are being evaluated. The details of this work are included in Mike Watkin’s weekly summary.

III. Kimberly-Clark

A production run to produce base mat was made in the KC mill located in Anaheim, NY (Nov 30/Dec 1). The purpose of this run was two fold: 1) to produce mat using commercial equipment and 2) produce sufficient mat for machine start up through Phase II testing. Even though KC eliminated many of the problem areas in the production line prior to the run

202109515