CONFIDENTIAL

PHILLIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Mr. A. C. Lilly Date: January 25, 1988

From: .E. B. Sanders

Subject: Operational Plan for the Delta I Program

A. Objective

To design and develop a device which will deliver tobacco taste by heating tobacco as opposed to burning it. The device will either resemble a cigarette or consist of a front end inserted into a holder. We must be prepared to produce production quantities of these devices (500 million/month) by January, 1989.

B. Background

In September, 1987, a decision was made to increase our efforts toward the design and development of an article which would produce mainstream smoke by heating tobacco as opposed to burning tobacco in a conventional cigarette. This decision was made to meet a potential competitive challenge. The article as originally conceived would resemble a conventional cigarette. The taste would be generated by the burning of a carbon heat source which would be contained in an insulator. The burning of this carbon would allow nicotine and flavors from tobacco particles placed behind the carbon heat source to be volatilized and, in turn, delivered to the smoker. Although the original conception was to have the article match a conventional cigarette in size and appearance, it has since been decided to concurrently design one or more holders into which the “front end” could be inserted. Consequently one or both of these devices could be introduced as a product if so desired. As mentioned above this work is scheduled to be completed in late 1988.

C. Status

All work carried out to date has been restricted to the design and development of the front end. These efforts can best be discussed by considering each part of the front end separately.

1. Carbon

The current specifications for the carbon are as follows:

Dimensions - 10 mm in length; diameter is provisionally set at 4.65 mm.

Static mass loss rate . Greater than 20 mg/min in air.

Ash content - Less than 3%.



2021387740