PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. RECEIVED
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE AUG 11 1987
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA CLIFF LILLY
CONFIDENTIAL

To: John Campbell
Date: August 6, 1987
From: Lou Turano
Subject: ART MONTHLY PROJECT STATUS

GENERAL

During June and July, all engineering consultants for the Commercial Plant
were selected. The high pressure building and the tobacco processing building
were assigned to M. Kellogg and Fluor-Daniel respectively. Construction
management was awarded to Daniel who is the major contractor for the pilot
plant.

P-500 has been selected as the site of the Commercial Plant. The exact
location on the site should be finalized during the first week of August
and is pending analysis of soil boring data and issues relating to P-500
operations.

Air permits, which were applied for during May, for the operation of a
commercial ART facility at P-500 have been granted by the State of Virginia.

The pilot plant passed Factory Mutual’s inspection and occupancy permits
were issued by Chesterfield County.

PILOT PLANT

Mechanical and electrical construction, as well as high pressure (550 psi)
hydro testing were completed by July 2, 1987.

Checkout and simulated testing of the electrical instrumentation and control
software were completed on July 16, 1987, and released for testing with
high pressure carbon dioxide.

The following represents the major problems which were encountered and
resolved during the startup period from July 16 to August 1:

- All high pressure Moog valves failed to function as block valves
and leaked past the seats. This required disassembly, remachining
and lapping of valve seats. It was necessary to ship five valves
back to the manufacturer in Texas to fabricate new seats.

- Although all piping was flushed subsequent to hydro testing, the
dismantling of the valves revealed copious amounts of welding slag
and grinding stone material within the piping system. All lines
were re-cleaned using high pressure lances.

The CO detection system was seen to be defective in the manufacturer’s
instrument design. After three changes to the design,
the internals are functioning properly.

C87-086