PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Murray D. Rosenberg Date: May 23, 1991

From: Margaret A. Soutwick MAS

Subject: Monthly Report - May 1991

Literature Searches

A major search was done this month for the Tobacco Physiology and Biochemistry in support of a research proposal currently under development. This process will continue to generate requests from this group in the near term.

The area of specifications (this includes Analytical Flavor Specifications, Materials Specifications, Special Investigations, and the Research Group) continues to generate numerous requests. Eight of 21 searches completed this month were requests from this area. A major effort involved the transfer of analytical procedures citations for -80 agricultural bioregulators onto floppy disk for J. Ware.

A third area of burgeoning demand is the Environmental Research Group in Process Development. Three searches were completed for this group in May.

Special Projects, Assignments, and Miscellaneous

I attended the ASTM Subcommittee 6.49.01 on Chemical Structural Information in Atlantic City, NJ, May 6-7, 1991. The first day was a workshop devoted to explaining the history and purpose of the Subcommittee, followed by a series of presentations on topics that are currently under committee study and topics that are likely to come under the committee’s purview during the next year. The second day was the actual Subcommittee meeting day. We considered the ballots received from the first round of voting on the draft standard. The ASTM process requires that all negative votes be accompanied by a detailed explanation for the negatives, so that the issue can be resolved. The Subcommittee considers each negative vote and decides if the vote is a “persuasive” negative, i.e., a negative that has to be resolved before the standard can be adopted. The Subcommittee did indeed find several of the negative votes to be persuasive, and a new version of the SMD (Standard Molecular Description) will be prepared in the coming months.

2022259883