#2650



PHILLIPS MORRIS U.S.A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia


To: Jeff Seaman Date: December 10, 1991
From: J. Fournier, A. Kailianos, J. Paine, K. Podraga
Subject: Weekly Inorganic Chemistry Update  f. ind.

* The second 10-gallon synthetic preparation of magnesite at Pressure Chemical Company is in progress.

* The technical package describing the synthesis of the aqueous non-sol-gel material has been sent to two vendors for scale-up considerations.

* Machine-made papers were prepared at the University of Maine using four different commercial calcites as filler.

Magnesite. The second 10-gallon synthetic preparation of magnesite at Pressure Chemical Company is in progress. A sample of this material is expected to arrive on Thursday for evaluation.

Aqueous Non-Sol-Gel. A preliminary technical package describing the synthesis of the aqueous non-sol-gel material has been compiled with Dr. W. B. Edwards. This package is being forwarded to two vendors for scale-up consideration.

Calcium Carbonate. Five papers were received from the handcast lab,
containing 25% magnesite and 75% calcium carbonate (by weight grams/m²) basis weight, 4.2 to 6.5 Coresca porosity, and 6-7 nominal potassium succinate sizing. The calcites involved: Multiflon MM, Alcasil,
Albasil, Microcalcite 3, and Pikes Peak. These papers are being evaluated for sidestream reduction and elemental analysis.

Machine-made papers were prepared at the University of Maine using four different calcites as filler. The four calcites, Albasil-99/10, Microone 3,
Multiflon MM, and Micro-White 2S, were chosen because of their similar particle size (μm, Palmer Malvern Analyzer), different morphology and commercial availability.

Hydroxymethyls. Sidestream reduction results were received for a series of 7 papers prepared from five variously prepared samples of coarse hydrogels. Sidestream reductions ranged from 60 to 120 (static burn time 9-11.5 minutes). The papers were treated with 1% sodium hydrosulfite and solidware pore size was measured previously.  t shown
as a function of the reduction level in sidestream.

Coronatys compared to those derived from papers of the previous.

Structures of Substrates

(Continued on page 2)



CN-09/08/91
29921065