THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE

8031 STREET NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20006
202/657-4000 - 800/424-9876

SAMUEL D. CHILCOTE, JR.
President

MEMORANDUM

March 25, 1994

TO: The Members of the Executive Committee

FROM: Samuel D. Chilcote, Jr.

The House Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health & a public environment held a public hearing today on the potential regulation of nicotine under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Statements distributed at the hearing are enclosed.

Before the hearing, Tobacco Institute Vice President Brennan Dawson led a press briefing summarizing the major points of testimony which would be offered by TI Senior Consultant and former Member of Congress Charles C. Whitley and Lorillard Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Dr. Alexander W. Spears.

Press attendance at the briefing and at the hearing was heavy. NBC-TV, CBS-TV, NBC-NN, CNN-TV, and several satellite news cameras covered the events. Print reporters included The Associated Press, The Washington Post, New York Times, Louisville Courier-Journal, and many others. Radio reporters from the major networks also attended.

The subcommittee hearing was attended by the Chairman, Henry Waxman (D-CA), ranking minority member Tom Bliley (R-VA), and members Mike Synar (D-OK) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). All subcommittee members offered opening remarks.

On the first panel of witnesses were Reps. Richard Durbin (D-IL), James Clyburn (D-SC), and Martin Lancaster (D-NC). Rep. Durbin made reference to a “witch’s brew” of industry drugs and deadly chemicals and alleged that the nicotine products to target groups such as African-Americans, women, and children. Rep. Clyburn asked the subcommittee to consider the timing of the February 25 letter from FDA Commissioner Kessler and noted that he and his constituents take exception to such “scaremongering.” Rep. Lancaster stated that Commissioner Kessler had a "pistol half-cocked” loading with blanks. In writing the February 25 letter, he noted that one need distinguished spirits. Should let be regulating time, to beer and distilled spirits. He said that the FDA was unable “to meet its current mandate" and should not be burdened with additional responsibilities.

2023192628