PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER - OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia RESTRICTED

DISTRIBUTION

To: Ms. R. D. Kinser Date: 14 February 1990

From: A. H. Warfield

Subject: Summary of 6908 Activities for 1989

I. Oriental Tobacco Studies

A. A study of the effect of agronomic variables on preformed TSNA and MS smoke TSNA from oriental tobacco was concluded. Samsun and bright (McNeair 373) tobaccos were grown under bright conditions, and effects of topping, flue-curing and sun-curing were studied. When filler TSNA levels were taken into consideration, the agronomic variables had a very substantial influence on the transfer/pyrolysis phenomena leading to the observed levels of TSNA in MS smoke 26. Sun-curing gave much lower levels of preformed TSNA than flue-curing. The lowest levels of MS TSNA relative to TPM were delivered by the sun-cured and not topped Samsun tobacco.

B. A pilot study was carried out on the relationship of chemical characteristics of different oriental varieties to the levels of endogenous TSNA found and MS TSNA produced when corresponding cigarettes were smoked. There were significant variations in both endogenous TSNA and MS TSNA among the three varieties 27.

C. Based on the results of the pilot study described above, an expanded study of eight oriental varieties was completed except for final data analysis. Wide ranges in the levels of various components were observed depending on the country of origin as well as grade designation in some cases. Only two varieties had levels of endogenous TSNA typical of those found in blended oriental fillers. Very low endogenous TSNA values were observed for the other varieties. The variety found to yield the highest level of MS TSNA was not the one which had the highest levels of endogenous TSNA 28.

D. Samples of American Aromatic Tobacco (AAT) that were grown in 1985 under bright conditions with air-curing were obtained from Roger Bass (Project 2525). AAT originated from crosses between a South American tobacco, a bright variety, and a burley. The TSNA levels were lower than those found for a typical burley, but higher than those found normally for oriental. AAT leaves were considerably higher in NNN levels in all these samples, while NNN is the proper choice as standard library in endogenous TSNA, bulked TNNS-preparations with some exceptions in the five different crosses tested, 29
tional to absolute levels.

2085051