PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.



INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE




Richmond, Virginia Date: March 18, 1992

To: R. P. Herstich
From: G. H. Bokelman
Subject: Paper Development Weekly Summary

VIRGINIA SLIMS LOW SIDESTREAM

Cigarettes were made in the semiworks to Virginia Slims Lights specifications using two of Kimberly-Clark’s high basis weight chalk papers and a binary magnesite paper (PITY). 
K-C's V5 and V3 grade papers were each sized to give respective weight additions of 10.0%
and 12.0% KH₂PO₄. The binary magnesite paper was sized to give a 4.5% weight addition of 
K succinate. All of these cigarettes, and an additional model with grade 005 paper from 
Kimberly-Clark’s one-step process gave at least a 50% reduction in sidestream visibility.

PROJECT MAGIC

Mainstream smoking analyses were completed on a set of four cigarettes made in the 
semiworks with a 45 gsm binary magnesite base paper (PITY) that had been treated by Neusta 
with four separate solutions: potassium citrate/succinate, potassium citrate/sucrose/citric 
acid, potassium citrate/sucrose/sulfuric acid, and potassium citrate/sulfuric acid. These 
cigarettes did not exhibit any significant differences in tar delivery. Sidestream visibility 
reductions ranged from 50% to 60%. Subjective screening to date has not shown any of these 
additives to be superior to potassium succinate, which was used on previous cigarette models.

CELLULOSE DERIVATIZATION

A contract on the joint development of cellulosic materials for use in or on cigarette 
paper has been signed by PM and sent to Aqualon Co. for approval.



CIGARETTE PAPER SPECIFICATIONS

A sampling of twenty bobbins of 10-6584 cigarette wrapper was begun to determine 
Kimberly-Clark’s process capabilities for calcium carbonate concentration and porosity. The 
twenty bobbins were selected from specific points in a roll mill, samples are being taken at 600 
meter intervals throughout the bobbins for the analyses.

BLEND COMPOSITION ANALYSIS

Blend composition analyses have been completed on once-a-month samples of the 
following cigarettes monitored over a six-month period: (1) Marlboro 85 SP (MC), (2) 
Marlboro Menthol 85 SP (Louisville), (3) Merit 85 SP (Cabarrus) and (4) PM Lights 85 SP.
(Barbours). As expected, stem content showed the greatest variation. Probable rights to the