PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: :Barbro Goodman Date: July 7, 1988

From: G.ia Kim Yi (V. Baliga - Project Leader)

Subject: Structural and Elemental Characterization of Five Experimental Cigarettes.

Five experimental cigarettes were submitted for examination by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy dispersive x-ray spectrometry (EDS). The cigarettes were labelled as follows (Appendix 1):

Virginia Superslims
ABN 35% Mg(OH)2
XBS 35% CaCO3 with liner
ABN 35% Mg(OH)2 with Borax
ABP 15% Mg(OH)2 with liner

The ash, char-line, & unburned paper and liner of the samples were processed for analysis. Examinations and comparisons were made on the structural features and on the elemental composition of the above samples.

Virginia Superslims

The gross morphology of the ash appeared to be uniform in composition and texture (Fig. 1). It contained dense aggregates of equant-shaped particles which measured 0.4µm - 1µm in diameter. The surface of the particles, as shown under high magnification, were either smooth or rough (Fig. 2). The particles with a rough surface may have been broken down into finer unit particles. The unburned paper contained high amounts of Ca-containing particles (Figs. 3, 4). These particles appeared to have metamorphosed dramatically through the burn since similar structures were not visible in the ash. Similar results were obtained from the study done on the potassium acetate containing papers by G.ia Kim Yi. The char-line on both sides of the paper contained bubbles and crusty structures as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. These structures are abundant at the char-line, and were similar to ones found in the Potassium papers discussed by G.ia Kim Yi. There may be a heat-sensitive coating material present which expands and bubbles as heat causes the release of gases. The crusty structures may form as the bubbles cool.

The liner contained oblong-shaped particles which measured 0.4µm - 0.8µm in length (Fig. 7). These Ca-containing particles appeared to be different from the equant-shaped Ca particles found in the paper (Fig. 4), the liner contained low numbers of particles compared to the paper and had a more uniform surface shape due to its finer particle size. The CaO elements detected by EDS were present at 2% by weight.

20124578