PHILIP MORRIS USA

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017-5692

TO: Jim Kordenbrock
DATE: May 17, 1994

FROM: Michelle Salzman / Rick Wilhelm

SUBJECT: RX Management Materials -- Agency Development Brief.

The following outlines the information that is to be incorporated into the Management
Materials for Project RX.

OVERVIEW

As the profit generated from sales of RX is less than those realized from the sale of
full margin brands and, in some instances, deep discount brands, the focus of the "sell story"
for RX will be one based on consumer demand for the product. In essence, consumer
demand for RX will be so strong that retailers not carrying the product will be at a
competitive disadvantage. To support this argument, key learnings from the RX ad-pack
research (such as purchase interest), as well as a few "memorable" consumer quotes from
focus groups and one-on-ones, will be incorporated into the sales materials.

The actual sell in brochure should be a printed 4 page, 4 color piece that contains a pocket for
introductory allowances worksheets, pricing worksheets P.O.S. menu items etc.

4 COLOR BROCHURE

The following details the elements which are to be included on the sales brochure in priority
order:

1) RX Proposition

First and foremost, retailers must be educated as simply as possible as to what RX
is all about. They must clearly understand it’s positioning as every bit a Marlboro that
because its shorter costs less.

While retail pricing is obviously a critical element to the success of RX, the brand's
desired absolute retail price should not be printed on the actual 4 color brochure.
Instead, suggested retail pricing will be handled on a separate worksheet insert so that
sales reps can adjust pricing on an account by account basis (see example).

2) Sell Story

Involving and straight-forward copy that "sells" the retail trade on the strong consumer
demand RX will generate and how important it is that he/she carry the product is the
foundation of the sales story and must be boldly communicated.



2024072051