PHILLIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: .Colon Rowe Date: July 31, 1989

From: .Dick Howe

Subject: .Nicotine Overspray

Enclosed please find a draft of the Job Safe Procedure for the over-
spray of nicotine on cut filler or like material. In accordance with our
previous discussions and with your approval, we developed this procedure for
your explosion-proof room in Semoworks. We feel this offers several
advantages to the small scale room previously employed. One is a
more increase in safety from fire or explosion. In addition, it is more
isolated from other work and we feel the drying can be done in the same room
to avoid transporting the tobacco outside.

The installation of the spray cylinder and valving/reservoir unit in
the explosion proof room is underway. A hole will need to be drilled
through to the adjacent room (primary) to install the spray unit control
system which is not spark-proof. A window is to be added to the door of
explosion-proof room (not to exceed 100 sq.in.) to allow visual contact
with the inside worker and standby cylinder operation. This will allow
the backup team to be in standby mode ("on air").

Johnny Jones and Linda Gunn of EEP have assured me that the window in
the door and the hole drilled through the wall can be properly sealed to
maintain the explosion proof integrity of the room. K.H. Cho and Mike
Penn are arranging to install a Class I, Division 1 (spark-proof)
cylinder rotating motor with belt drive instead of chain drive and an
airline lockout system for added safety. We simply need to ensure that the
electrical conduit used for installation meets the same criteria.

Ethanol procedure is now scheduled to use nicotine free base dissolved
in this instead of nicotine citrate. Our procedure was written to cover
both contingencies.

To the best of my knowledge this experiment is planned for August
7, 1989. We plan to spray filler with alcohol first - as a "dry run" for
our procedure and for use as a control sample for the research. Then we
intend to spray one batch of filler with nicotine at the 2.15% loading level
(filler analysis) which is designated “the molded” loaded slurry
required for the research. This experiment will be conducted in such
with many samples taken to help define the hazards and safety precautions
necessary. Extra safety precautions will be taken during this dry run
which may include unnecessary spray review of the procedure with all
participants.  We need to determine if a spark-proof vacuum system is
required for cleanup.

If you may be interested in attending the dry run, please let me know.

cc: Mike Penn
       Johnny Jones
       Linda Gunn

202486529