PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: R.N. Ferguson, H. Alonso, P.N. Gauvin Date: November 28, 1988

From: S.D. Baldwin, R.M. Rogers, W.A. Geiszler

Subject: Philip Morris USA’s Needs in Paper Technology.

A number of important issues facing Phillip Morris can be addressed in large part by means of paper technology. Sidestream smoke reduction, altered mass burn rate, spotting (both in ART and non-ART products), new products and paper breakage during manufacturing all reflect current needs which can best via modification of the wrapper material itself. Future needs might include the requirement for an exceptionally strong and flexible paper to cigarette-market speeds advance to 10,000 units per minute, and perhaps ultimately to 17,000 units per minute. Also, innovative new products have requirements for very unusual papers.

In the area of sidestream smoke reduction, for example, modification of the cigarette wrapper has produced very good results. Low porosity papers and those with very fine particle size inorganic fillers have been successfully used as a means of reducing chemical smoke. R&D is currently evaluating materials with different chemical and physical properties from those used for routine paper making. Extremely high surface area calcium carbonate (72 m²/g vs. 7 m²/g for normal papermaking, and 22 m²/g for “standard” sidestream-reduction paper) has been obtained and is being tested. Initial results are encouraging. Materials with different chemistries such as magnesium carbonate, have been tested with some initial success. A variety of mineral papers will also be evaluated, along with several novel synthetic inorganic fillers to be prepared by H. Kallianos and others within and outside of R&D. Physical and chemical characterization of papermaking materials will also be performed, so that we can determine why we observe what we do and to gain insight into the mechanisms involved 1,.

Alternate paper constructions are also being developed in the sidestream program in order to obtain the optimum product with respect to both performance and subjective characteristics or double-wrappered, laminating of sheets and preprinting layered options. Gradient shaping is another area which can give us a degree of control over product performance. Different materials can be combined in two layers to achieve a variety of effects.  A composite paper consisting of a high strength outer layer and a low cost inner layer is also being considered.

We are currently evaluating several different paper machines, both domestic and foreign, to determine which one best suits our needs.  The key factors in this evaluation will be machine speed, paper grade capability, and cost.  It appears that the Japanese are currently leading the world in paper technology, and we should consider visiting some of their mills.

J. Baldwiin
R.M. Rogers
W.A. Geiszler

4197-498