PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Bob Ferguson Date: December 9, 1989
From: Bill Kenny (Vicki Bailiga, Project Leader) Bk/ll Kenny

Subject: Videotapes of Burns of Low Sidestream Cigarettes

Samples of three sets of cigarettes obtained from Gordon Bokelman have been videotaped at a magnification used to those which were used in the previous videotape. The cigarettes used were:

D3DAV Dual-wrapped with 45 g/m² outer paper having 35% CaCO,
(89569) 0.4% NH₄PO₄, 0.3% NaCMC, and 1½ K₂succinate, and inner
paper with 18 g/m² basis weight, 3% CaCO, and
0.15% citrate

D3DAV Single wrapped with high basis weight paper, 65 g/m²,
(89571) with 35% CaCO, and 10% NH₄PO₄

Marlboro Lights 100’s as control

For all three cigarette sample sets, the burning event took place as we had seen before, with a period of char followed by a turn. The burn seemed to move around the circumference of the cigarette in a circular fashion, sometimes changing direction while on the visible side. Visual observation of two cigarettes placed in the chamber so that both sides could be seen, showed the burn proceeding up one side and then the other alternately in a spiral manner. This suggested that the burn did, indeed, circle around the full circumference in a clockwise direction as it moved.

The smoke from the Marlboro cigarette was visible in close proximity to the rod, and its movement appeared somewhat ahead of the char line along the front side of the rod, new millimeters ahead of the char (Figure 1). All of the cigarettes in the test showed an area of smoke emanates from the underside of the rod a few millimeters ahead of the char (Figures 1 to 4), but the video images of the low-sidestream cigarettes (did not allow it to be seen above the rod (Figure 2). During the taping, a plume of smoke could only be seen above these cigarettes by normal inspection. Where the video image shows no plume, the smoke had coalesced to form the visible smoke point above and outside the imaging area of the camera. The plume at a smoke point on the outer cigarette was considerably less than that from the Marlboro cigarettes.

The visual observation of the D3DAV single wrapped cigarette showed a burn which proceeded up one side of the cigarette, then turned and continued up the other side (Figure 2). This appeared to be similar to the burn observed in the dual-wrapped D3DAV cigarette (Figure 3), but the burn on the single-wrapped cigarette was more rapid. The burning rate for the single-wrapped D3DAV cigarette was approximately 8 mm/sec, while that of the dual-wrapped was approximately 5 mm/sec.

2026158-000