PHILIP MORRIS USA

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5692

TO: William I. Campbell DATE: September 2, 1992

FROM: David E.R. Daragoa

SUBJECT: BENSON & HEDGES SPECIAL KINGS - GENRE MEDIA COVERAGE

Looking back at the media stir created by the Wall Street Journal article, Thursday, August 13, 1992, I think our Corporate Affairs Department did an excellent job with "damage control" (please see enclosed summary of events from Karen Daragoa and summary of Jim Oats’ conversation with Stuart Eliot of the New York Times).

The issue has died down and to the best of our knowledge, very little awareness was created associating the B&H Special Kings brand name with the story and the reporting got fairer with time.

However, the Wall Street Journal article was very unfortunate and “unfair”….

Ironically, although we committed only $9,200 for two issues of Genre (total of two ads out of a total media budget of well over $35 mio (1), we had long discussions up the line including myself and Jack Nelson concerning the wisdom of approving Leo Burnet’s recommendation to make this media buy. But, we decided it was the right thing to do.

Two unforeseen circumstances played a role: The day before the Wall Street Journal called, we had just granted an exclusive interview and story on the B&H Special Kings launch to Stuart Eliot of the New York Times (he held back the story as a result of the WSJ article and only ran it last week). Hence, we did not give the story to the WSJ, but only responded to their questions.

Secondly, either the actual publication or someone else drew the WSJ attention to our media buy. It is not the first time that the WSJ marketing section prides themselves with “tabloid reporting sensationalism”. Why they chose this angle for the story is strange, as well know that Absolut Vodka and Miller had advertised in this publication for some time.

It continues to be challenging to take measured risks when trying to create impact for the advertising of our cigarettes.

fra

cc: K. Daragoa
V. Han
S. LeVan
M. Miles
E. Merlo
R. Murray
J. Nelson

2023897457