FOR YOUR INFORMATION

Suzanne LeVan

DATE: October 25, 1993

TO: Jim Morgan

SUBJECT: Red Yellow Green

Here’s what's hot this week.

RED

V-Wear Purchase Order - Purchase orders totally $4MM need to be finalized and signed Tuesday to keep program on track. We got Wexler involved last week as we were caught up in conflicting POV’s between Purchasing and Finance. It seems we haven’t quite agreed internally how we want to work with suppliers, let alone developing a system is agreeable to suppliers. Adrian is dealing with some last minute variations on the redemption estimates and he should be ready for final signatures tomorrow.

Merit Packaging - We're set to review the crest fix options with you today. Assuming you agree to Norma & Walchak’s recommendation, they will meet with them Friday to implement.

Catalogue Sales - The Distribution Task Force is currently scheduled to be meeting with MES the same time as the New Products committee. Beran and Herominus are working to juggle schedules to see if we can get all the interest parties together to determine how we might learn what we need to learn and take action appropriately. Frankly, I’m hearing lots of Sales support, and found John Clary to be an isolated opponent.

MBA Recruiting - This is on our Monday morning VP agenda. We need to agree to how many candidates we are looking for summer 1994 hiring. We also have to make a commitment to fund school presentation ($25,000) and to a presentation subject. The first campus visit is slated for 11/16/93 so we need to act now.

YELLOW

Virginia Slims Creative - We’ll see 4-5 executions of new print from concepts & copy lines we have previously approved. We'll also have some discussion of OOH. Agency is unsure that they will have the best OOH solution this week; it may still be “work in progress” for Miles.

Parliament Agency - We need to nail down a compensation program for BSB for 1994 including what gets paid out to their subsidiary agencies. We’re working with Ginny Murphey but there doesn't seem to be much clarity arrangements in the past. We need to nail it down quickly, because Bob and Ina want to award the events part of the resort program to an agency outside of the BSB Family. Because of our move back into OOH, I don’t believe BSB will be hurt year to year financially -- but it makes sense to get this all on the table now.

20401143