PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTER - OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE ED

100 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017

OCT 16 1972   Date: October 12, 1972
To: Dr. R. B. Seligman  J. GRANVILLE
From: Marketing Research Department

Subject: HPI Test Of Two Virginia Slims Packages; Box Vs. Current Soft Pack (Project No. 8718/8719)

The purpose of this test was to determine the degree of consumer interest in a box version of Virginia Slims relative to the current soft pack. To this end five packs each of experimental Virginia Slims Box and production Virginia Slims Soft Pack were mailed to 325 women (125 were Virginia Slims smokers, and 200 were smokers of "other" 100mm non-menthol filters). About two weeks after receiving their cigarettes, each woman was contacted via telephone and interviewed with regard to her: 1) overall preference, 2) package preference, and 3) whether or not she noted any differences between the cigarettes themselves.

It should be kept in mind that the Virginia Slims cigarettes used in both packages were identical with regard to all qualitative characteristics except overall cigarette length (the cigarettes in the experimental box were about 2mm shorter).

SUMMARY/DISCUSSION

Overall preference was about equal between the Virginia Slims in the soft pack and those in the box (49/51 for Virginia Slims smokers and 54/46 for smokers of "other" 100mm non-menthols). The reasons for overall preference were based mainly on perceived differences between the cigarettes rather that package differences. The majority of women who gave a packaging reason for their over-all choice, voted in favor of the box.

When questioned directly as to their preferences between the packages, the women indicated that the box was preferred over the soft pack (70/30 by Virginia Slims smokers and 61/39 by cross-section smokers). It was also found that each type of package possessed its own unique attributes:
Box: "Cigarettes didn't crush;" "box protected them;" "No loose tobacco/Heat/Not Messy;" "cigarettes didn’t fall out.”
“Keeps cigarettes better” “Moist/not dry.”
Soft Pack: “Fits better into pocket or purse,” “It’s easier to carry, cigarette case,” “Smaller/Not Bulky," "It's harder to tear"

Finally, when asked about the differences between the cigarettes themselves, the women in both smoker groups tended toward agreement that the cigarettes in the box appeared to be more "flavorful" than those in the soft pack.

As we can conclude that our packaging, the box offers several benefits as a convenient container for Virginia Slims cigarettes. It is felt that this box has potential for consumer acceptance.

J. Granville
Marketing Research Department

204100914