K. Miller

PHILIP MORRIS USA INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5692

TO: Sonya Rush DATE: February 4, 1994
FROM: Lauren Herman
SUBJECT: Cambridge Advertising Development Mini-Groups -- Final Report

The attached is the final report for the Cambridge Advertising Development Mini-Groups that were conducted in Phoenix Arizona on January 11th, 12th and 13th. Fifteen mini-groups were conducted among men and women, ages 25-54 who regularly smoke Cambridge/C-Store Private Label/Distributor Brands or National Deep Discount Brands. The objective of this research was to examine opportunities for Cambridge advertising that would attract interest from the C-Store/Wholesale Competitive discount brands smokers and also would provide reinforcement to current Cambridge smokers.

It is important to note that research was conducted on the advertising prior to Phoenix: 3 in-depth interviews were conducted on December 14th and 15th in Minneapolis, MN, Minnesota among men and women, ages 25-54 who regularly smoke Cambridge/Private Label/Deep Discount. The objectives of this research were to determine the relevance of two proposed campaigns (“Side by Side Comparison” & “Testimonial”) to Cambridge and B&W/PL smokers, and determine any negatives associated with either of the campaigns or their specific executions.

Key Findings

The findings of both rounds of research were consistent. The overall finding being that the comparison of Cambridge to Store Brands does not appear to be a relevant for compelling message to these smokers.

C-Store Private Labels/Distributor Brand or National Deep Discount Brand Smokers

For the most part, these smokers appear to be content with what they are smoking. As a result, the ads and concepts shown did not provide a motive to switch. The Cambridge name did not provide an added advantage warranting a higher price.

The “Store Brand” does not appear to be relevant to consumers. The propositions/benefit conveyed in the concept statements/advertising were determined to be insignificant/no pertinent to these smokers.

For those not negatively predisposed to Cambridge’s name, some of the claims about Cambridge would convert them to a purchase only if it was comparably priced to their current low-priced cigarettes.

Cambridge smokers do not appreciate the frame of reference to low-priced brands; they feel their brand is being comparable to C-Store/Private Label competitive discount store smoker brands.

204156329