100 West Hubbard Street
Suite 430
Chicago, Illinois 60610
(312) 644-0800
Fax (312) 644-0538

Memorandum

Date: November 2, 1995
To: Eric Ostern
From: Phil Nobel
Subject: Results of SPR survey

Per our conversation last Friday, October 27, each market manager polled their SPRs on why establishments are reluctant to participate in The Accommodation Program and to sign the authorization allowing the use of their name in advertising and promotional materials. The following is our consolidated lists pertaining to these two issues.

Common reasons why establishments will not participate:

1. Owners are anti-smoking, want to avoid the issue and do not want to encourage smoking. They think that by accommodating smokers, they are alienating the non-smokers.

2. Owners have already made a conscious decision to go no-smoking and see no need for accommodation.

3. Restaurant is too small for different smoking sections and does not have the ability to accommodate.

4. Owners do not want their establishments to have any association with Philip Morris Inc. and/or any other tobacco companies. They would rather avoid the entire smoking issue rather than associate with a program related to smoking.

5. Language barrier between the establishment personnel and the sales promotion representatives. Many non-English speaking establishments do not understand or feel comfortable with the program’s entirely English materials. This problem occurs primarily in Miami, San Antonio and El Paso.

Common reasons why establishments will not sign:

1. Owners fear that there is a future payment and that there is a “catch” to this program.

2. Proprietors do not have the authority to approve any advertising because decisions regarding any printing of the establishment’s name need to be made at a corporate level. We are creating a list of these restaurants/chains.

3. Owners do not want direct association with Philip Morris Inc. and/or any other tobacco companies that would result from print advertising.

4. Establishments want more control over advertising-ability to create or proof ads.



2048529008