PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP. INTER-OFFICE MEMO
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017-5592

TO: Records Coordinators and Employees
Philip Morris Companies Inc.
Philip Morris Incorporated
Philip Morris Management Corp.

DATE: April 2, 1996

FROM: William F. Lynch III

RE: Records Disposal Suspension Notice

As Records Coordinators and employees, it is your responsibility to see that all records are managed pursuant to the Records Management Policy.

Requests for certain records, most of which are already subject to disposal suspension under the applicable Philip Morris Records Management Manual, were recently served upon Philip Morris Incorporated. This notice will serve to place the records described in the three separate attachments (Attachments A, B and C) to this memorandum under disposal suspension, to the extent they are not already under suspension, and extends to all such records whatever their media.

For purposes of this disposal suspension notice, "records" is used in the broadest sense of the term and means each and every writing and all writings, whether in an original, a draft (including any and all drafts), or a copy, however produced or reproduced, and each and every tangible thing from which information can be processed or transcribed, such as tape or other electronic data communications. Except for electronic records which must be preserved in original electronic form pursuant to previously issued disposal suspension notices dated April 6, 1994, April 21, 1994, May 4, 1994 and July 28, 1994, electronic mail and other electronic records, if any, should be retained by printing and retaining a paper copy only, in accordance with the usual retention practice for electronic records subject to each Records Management Manual’s Appendix entitled Topics Subject to Disposal Suspension. However, electronic records subject to disposal suspension that are incapable of being printed must continue to be maintained in electronic form.

Code: 1996 - 003 - 002 - F
204534516