PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592

To: Distribution Date: April 19, 1994
From: Darienne L. Dennis
Subject: ANNUAL MEETING: UPDATE ON INF ACT ACTIVITIES

Today was the official launch of INFACT’s boycott of PM and RJR Nabisco products. To date, the following has been reported:

- New York: Jim Wegman of PM's Security Department met with six INF ACT representatives today outside of 120 Park.

Two individuals had first come into the lobby to see Mr. Miles. Jim was there, greeted them cordially and explained that (1) one can’t see Mr. Miles without calling in advance for an appointment; (2) that the lobby was private property and would they mind stepping outside. The conversation continued on the sidewalk - all being captured by an accompanying photographer.

The group consisted of six people – three older men, two older women and a young man. They all wore “Stop Joe Camel” buttons; the young man carried a small banner, "Stop Addicting Children.” They all passed out leaflets; copy attached.

- San Francisco: A rally is scheduled today from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. (pacific standard time) at Children’s Park in Golden Gate Park. We will have more details on this event later this evening.

- Los Angeles: Reportedly, no rally is scheduled for Los Angeles today. However, two groups will be distributing materials on the boycott. Three people, from Peace & Justice will be handing out flyers in front of the Catholic Chancery Office at West 9th Street in Los Angeles. One or two employees from Mrs. Goochie’s (a health-food grocery store chain) will be distributing flyers at one of the store locations in Coldwater Canyon/Studio City.

We are continuing to monitor the situation throughout the country, particularly keeping a close watch for any activities during this evening's rush hour. We will update you on any new developments as we become aware of them.

Cordial regards.

Distribution
Dede Bartlett
Murry Bring

2068007917