PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY. 10017-5592

TO: Philip Morris Employees DATE: October 14, 1994

FROM: Bill Murray and Geoff Bibble

We want to share with you the details of an exciting new advertising campaign. This campaign is not about a product, it’s a straight talking approach to explaining our point of view on some of the issues surrounding tobacco.

As we have traveled throughout the company and met with employees these last few months, we have both been impressed by the pride people express in what we do, and by the desire to speak up for what's right. And so, we decided it was time to share more directly with the American people our position on tobacco issues that are now being debated every day around the country. Further, we want the American people to know the facts because we hear from people time and time again that “facts matter.”

Therefore, starting today and continuing for the next several weeks, Philip Morris will launch an advertising campaign entitled "Where We Stand." With straight-forward plain talking ads, the campaign will explore our position on important tobacco issues and the controversy surrounding them. Attached to this mailing are copies of the ads that we will run over the next three weeks.

We want all of our employees to understand our position on these issues, and we encourage you to read these ads carefully so that you may be able to discuss it with your colleagues and family members who may be confused or even distressed by some of the accusations they read in the media.

In the weeks ahead you can look forward to regular "Where We Stand" updates in our various company publications and mailings, including the PM Globe.

The “Where We Stand” informational campaign can help end some of the hysteria around the country about the tobacco issues. We want you to be a part of this campaign and share this important information with others. Feel free to send us your thoughts about other issues we may want to discuss in future ads.

Attachments



Bill Murray Geoff Bibble

204764398