PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Mr. Dick Heretick Date: January 22, 1988

From: Myron Johnston

Subject: Differences between smokers of Marlboro Lights and Winston Lights

As Peggy Martin noted in her memo on this subject, the major difference
between Marlboro Lights and Winston Lights is their age. Most of
the socio-economic differences observed are one would expect on the basis
of the different age distributions. As she also mentioned, the National POI
Panel, on which these data are based, is short of young smokers and blacks,
because of the difficulty in recruiting them and keeping them on the panel, and
is heavily weighted toward women (which we select panelists for a product test
we select based on the age distribution of smokers of the brand of interest,
as you know). Because the panel is not truly representative of the market, I
looked at the data from the Tracking Study.

Percent who smoke Marlboro Lights and Winston Lights, by age

The top panel of Figure 1 shows the percent of all smokers who smoke a Marlboro
Light or Winston Light (King or 100s). Winston Lights Kings has its
highest market penetration among smokers 35 to 44 years old and Winston Lights
100s have it among smokers generally, over age-old an older group. By contrast,
Marlboro Lights Kings has its greatest appeal to the youngest smokers. As in
the case of Winston, the 100m version skews toward somewhat older ages than
the King, but unlike Winston Lights 100s, Marlboro 100s still has its
highest market penetration among the youngest smokers.

The bottom panel of Figure 1 shows the percent of smokers who smoke the
different packings of Marlboro Lights, by age. In both cases the box packings
were more toward young smokers than the soft packs. This is true of virtually
every brand that is available in both box and soft pack.

Historical patterns of smoking of Marlboro Red and Marlboro Lights

Marlboro Lights has not always skewed so heavily to the your smokers. Until
the early 1960s, the growth of Marlboro Lights was largely a result of people
of switch over from Marlboro Reds, and some smokers who were young at the time
(say, under 35 years old) have continued to smoke Marlboro Reds. Use of Marlboro
Lights has grown more rapidly in recent years among younger smokers than among
older smokers.

Figure 2 shows the market share data of Marlboro Red and Marlboro Lights
among smokers 18 to 24 years old. In 1963, Marlboro Reds had 50.3% of the
market among this group, while Marlboro Lights had only 7.9%. By 1986,
Marlboro Lights had increased its share to 33.3%, while Marlboro Reds declined
to 24.7%.



20501570