PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

Inter-Office Correspondence

Richmond, Va. May 3, 1994

To: All I.S. Employees
From: Jerry Ward
Subject: Records Retention

Attached is a copy of a Records Disposal Notice for I.S.. Please review and purge your records in accordance with the retention periods and dates reflected on this notice. This needs to be done in order to ensure compliance to PMUSA Records Retention Policies, Procedures, Schedules, and legal requirements. All of your records should be reviewed and purged except for those records that are under “disposal suspension” because of pending litigation. Documentation regarding suspended records is also attached.

The retention policy and schedule are applicable to both electronic and paper records. Electronic mail should be treated as a communication similar to a telephone conversation. Electronic mail can be substantive or transitory; transitory electronic mail can be disposed of by the originator and recipients based on their administrative need for the message. At a minimum, transitory messages should be reviewed and purged quarterly. If an electronic mail message is substantive and requires retention, the retention (magnetic media and/or paper) must comply with the applicable retention schedule.

The PMUSA/I.S. Records Retention Policy, Procedures, and Category Descriptions can be viewed (and printed) on-line via the “documentation” option within the DEV/CENTER. Please call Brenda Perkins (ext. 3713) or me (ext. 5139) if you have any questions or need assistance with the on-line facility.

After completing your review, please sign your name in the space provided below and return to Brenda Perkins (JRC-43-1) by 05/31/94, indicating you are in compliance with the PMUSA Records Retention Policy.

I certify that I have destroyed all records in accordance with the attached I.S. Records Disposal Notice. Further, I certify that the records I have destroyed were reviewed against the attached Disposal Suspension Notice and that none of the records destroyed are subject to disposal suspension.

Name (Print): Richard Weller
(Employee)

Signature: Richard Weller Date: 5/27/94
(Employee)



205463904