Davis, L.H.

PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

To: Mr. F. L. Daylor Date: June 22, 1979
From: L. H. Davis
Subject: Urea Replacement Program--Preliminary Outline

While working with Dr. Swain on the RL improvement project, we tried various valeric acids, both alone and in combinations, at several levels. We also tried them as their ammonium salts to increase their solubility to give more uniformity as well as to give a source of ammonia. Because of the low level of these salts that can be used to give the optimum taste effect, very little ammonia is added to the filler.

While in Argentina, I injected some of their Marlboro cigarettes with ammonium hydroxide on the last day there. Those who smoked the injected cigarettes agreed that the cigarettes were smoother, more salivating and tasted more like U.S. Marlburos. As this was tried my last day in Argentina, we could not explore it any further, but it seemed to confirm my thinking that some of the better taste of RCB compared with RL may be due to the presence of ammonia or compounds formed that will generate ammonia on pyrolysis.

On my return we tried ammonium acetate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium carbamate, and ammonium lactate in #544 blend Marlboro cigarettes containing no urea in the RL. The ammonium carbonate and ammonium acetate were harsher and drier tasting while the ammonium carbamate and ammonium lactate were smoother and more salivating.

Dr. Swain requested pilot plant samples of RL made with the carbamate and lactate salts. We should also evaluate samples made with these salts incorporated in the aftercutting solution to compare the retention of the ammonia on the filler when added at the end of the processing versus that when incorporated in the RL.

If the samples made by incorporating the salts in the sheet or the aftercutting solution confirm the positive results by injection, we should screen the ammonium salts of other organic acids such as gluconic, tartaric, citric, malic, etc., which have FDA GRAS status. Even ammonium salts of some amino acid should be screened, although glycine may be the best one from cost and availability considerations.

We should review all past work done on RCB to determine what reaction products containing ammonia and/or nitrogen compounds are measurable. This will help us to understand the chemical reactions involved in the taste differences between RL and RCB. We need to develop a system for measuring these compounds so that we can monitor them during processing.

To do this, we should consult with Dr. W. J. Lynk at Clarkson College. He has been doing work on amines and amino acids. He may be able to help us in developing a method for measuring the reaction products.



2051:349:34