RICHMOND, Virginia

INTER - OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE JUN 28 .1991

CONFIDENTIAL

To: Dr. K. S. Houghton
From: J. L. Myacle Date: June 4, 1991

Subject: PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT MONTHLY SUMMARY - MAY 1991

PROJECT BOLD

BOLD 100’s cigarettes were produced with low, target, and high RTD filters to determine the effect of filter RTD on total RTD and subjectives. A 413 mm TRD at equal ventilation resulted in comparable products. Filter acceptance criteria were determined using this information and submitted to Filtrona. Four pallets of BOLD 100’s filter rods were subsequently requested for use in a factory trial to confirm these results and to investigate variability effects on manufacturing performance. These are scheduled to be completed by June 7.

Results of the product placement test conducted in Northern Virginia/Maryland indicate that BOLD is rated more favorably than Carlton/Bow on several liking-related scales. When compared to the 1990 study, the current white-tipped BOLD was rated as smoother, less harsh and less irritating than the previous BOLD model.

BOLD 100 FOL’s 0594 and remakes of 0592 and 0593 were completed and released for testing.

LOW SIDESTREAM PROGRAM

Super Slim Single Wrap: Sidestream visibility measurements were made for single wrap and double wrap FOL test models. Compared to Marlboro Lights 100, each model gave approximately 70% reduction on the 8-port instrument. Conversion to the single wrap is expected at the end of May.

Magic Low SS Cigarettes Utilizing Wrappers With Magnesium Carbonate
Fillers: Plans have been formulated for the preparation of preliminary magnesite cigarette models in different configurations to provide baseline data for further cigarette development. The models will be made with the magnesite paper (45 g/m², terry) which gives highest SS visibility reduction on typical Lotus-type cigarettes and the magnesite paper (55 g/m², binary) which gives preferred subjective.

Cigarettes then produce in slides of 45 g/m² terry base paper citrate levels were relevant with magnesite papers down. Porosity at higher models gave about 70% ordinary models. Sidestream visibility compares to Marlboro lights 100’s binary base sheet models. The two fifty percent East ash thickness on g/m² ternary base sheet models. Each 50-60% less than the ash flaking on the ordinary base sheet paper and gave more retention.

2057792857