INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Mr. Leo Meyer Date: April 21, 1987
From: Myron Johnston
Subject: B&H King

At the March 13 meeting of the Benson and Hedges Task Force, I said I would look into the demographics of smokers of 80-85s who do not smoke our brands.
I don’t think there is anybody in the company more enthusiastic than I about the prospect of a B&H King (especially a menthol), and I have been pushing the idea at every opportunity for three or four years. Having said that, I have to add a caveat: we have to be careful that we don't shoot ourselves in the foot. We already own a good share of the nonmenthol 80-85 market.

Who Smokes Our Brands?

First a little background information. Figure 1 shows the total number of smokers, and the number who smoke a Philip Morris brand, by age of smoker and by length and type (menthol or nonmenthol) of cigarette. For all four length-type categories, the 18-24 year old market is highest among the youngest smokers and declines with age. Clearly this is the best position to be in, since there is a tendency for people to stick within a brand name. This, combined with the increase in the absolute number of 18-34 year olds from 1964 to 1984, is what fueled our growth in market share.

Figure 2 shows the total number of smokers of nonmenthol 80-85s and the number who smoke one of our brands, by age, sex, and race. Figure 3 shows the same data for menthols. I have deliberately put them both on the same scale to show the relative importance of menthols and nonmenthols among the various groups. Females are much more likely than males to smoke 100-120s and along males, blacks are more likely than whites to smoke 100-120s up to age 40, when the reverse becomes true. That explains the sex differences in the number of smokers of kings, and some of the race differences. Also, as I have shown on many occasions, blacks are much more likely than whites to smoke a menthol.

Who Doesn’t Smoke Our Nonmenthol 80-85s?

The areas vertically shaded in blue in Figures 2 and 3 can be considered windows of opportunity, with the exception of the direct proportion between smokers of kings and total population. I propose that we concentrate our efforts on penetrating these “windows” to pick up non-Philip Morris smokers. The largest window is among 18-24 year old white females who smoke menthols.

MJJ:SS



0039576