Philip Morris USA CONFIDENTIAL

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Dr. C. L. Ellis Date: August 25, 1998

From: A. I. Goldsmidh

Subject: The Merit story

When Merit was launched in 1976, part of the promotional activities included a whirlwind tour by Dr. Ikeda touting the scientific breakthrough that enabled the creation of a low delivery cigarette with a full flavor taste; other researchers also spoke to the press including Bill Dunn, Walt Cannon, and Hel-mut Wakefield. Based on the news reports — some of which are enclosed — I pieced together a possi-ble sequence to account for a reference to nine years of research in light of the fact that the quest for a flavorful low tar cigarette goes back at least to 1958 [C&S/04372]. It actually, most news stories say twelve years, which probably dates to the 1964 Surgeon General’s report. Interestingly, however, C75/01560 lists HTT test codes for hugley burley blends similar to the Timer blend so as to be able to substantiate claims that work had been continuing for seven years.

It would appear that Dr. Ikeda's clock started ticking at about the time a research program began at the Illinois Institute of Technology Research Institute (ITRI) of which Philip Morris was a sponsor. [Philip Morris first got involved with ITRI in 1965 [C&S/03108], when looking into electrostatic filters.] Then, in 1968, along with Airkem, Armour & Company, Gillette, Goodridge-Durkee, S. C. Johnson & Company, Lever Brothers, Procter & Gamble, Rexall Chemicals, and Vick Chemical, Philip Morris began jointly sponsoring a research program on odor characterization and measurement based on the Andrew Drexler progress report from ITRI [12-11] refer to olfactometers and the course gas chromatography was relied upon heavily, both of which correspond with the terminology in Ikeda’s presentations. When the initial three year program concluded, Philip Morris signed on as a co-sponsor of a two year follow-up program.

More significantly, Philip Morris assisted in a study on the determination of odor components in tobacco smoke, which was sponsored by the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Con-ditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). Phase I [9 and 13] found GC peaks correlating with likely contributors to odor, and Phase II used mass spectrometry to identify most of the constituents [11]. Although the commercial cigarette was shown when Owen Winston, Philip Morris’s resident reference cigarettes for use; some cigars and pipe tobaccos also were studied. In addition, PM R&D experts participated in investigations of odor similarities among smoke studies as opposed to those given by outside groups during testing on a blend such as Timer. There was a study published in the journal “Air Pollution Control” in 1972 [11] that would support this conclusion.

The development of Merit itself, however, appears to have been initiated with a project directed to the creation of a low tar cigarette with acceptable taste and aroma. This work was done by Ikeda and associates at ITRI under contract to Philip Morris. The initial results were disappointing, but after several attempts, a blend was developed that met the desired criteria.

I hope this information is helpful. Please let me know if you have any questions.

AIG/jld

Enclosures