PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
126 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017

TO: Distribution DATE: March 25, 1998
FROM: Matthew N. Winokur OUR REF:
SUBJECT: IARC Developments

This memo provides an update on the status of the forthcoming publication of the IARC multicenter ETS study and related issues.

In February IARC published its Biennial Report 1996/1997 providing brief descriptions of all IARC research, including an update on the multicenter study. It reported relative risks for ETS and lung cancer of 1.16 for spousal exposure, 1.17 for workplace exposure and 1.14 for combined spousal and workplace exposures. (Although none of the relative risks were statistically significant, “indicators of ETS exposure showed a dose-response relationship with lung cancer.") Also noted in the Biennial Report is a second ETS related study examining genetic susceptibility for lung cancer. Information in the Biennial Report was the basis for BAT’s media initiatives earlier this month.

The multicenter study is expected to be published shortly with the title “Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and risk of lung cancer: a multicentre case-control study in Europe.” (See footnote 26 in Nyberg, et al., referred to below.) There is conflicting information, however, regarding where the study will appear.

IARC affiliated authors will also present abstracts related to ETS at a March 28-April 2 meeting in New Orleans of the American Association for Research on Cancer.

UK ASH claims to have the unpublished abstract of the multicenter study which it has included on its home page (attached). It is interesting to note that it states: “Childhood exposure to ETS and exposure in vehicles and in public settings were not associated with lung cancer risk.”

Finally, IARC authors associated with the multicenter study have just published a new paper "A European validation study of smoking and environmental tobacco smoke exposure in nonsmokers lung cancer cases and controls," Nyberg, et al. (Attached) This paper can be seen as an attempt to provide support for the classification of the multicenter study and to preempt potential criticisms related to bias from exposure misclassification. Worldwide Scientific Affairs notes that, in general agreement with the information in the Biennial Report, this study (see Table 5) fails to achieve statistically significant results for spousal exposure, workplace exposure or the combination thereof.

Additional information will be provided as it becomes available.

MNW/
MNSW

Enclosures



20851.5G