PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017

TO: File DATE: December 8, 1998
FROM: Claire Carcich

SUBJECT: Minnesota Disclosure Statute

This memorandum summarizes the existing Minnesota disclosure statute (Minn. Stat. Chapter 461 Section 461.17) relating to cigarettes.

• Each manufacturer of cigarette products sold in Minnesota shall provide the Commissioner of Health (“Commissioner”) with an annual report, in a form and at time specified by the Commissioner, identifying for each brand any of the following substances present in detectable levels in the product in its unburned and burned state:

1. ammonia or any compound of ammonia;
2. arsenic;
3. cadmium;
4. formaldehyde; and
5. lead.

• Tobacco Substance Reporting Forms (“Form”) were sent to the tobacco companies (See attached letter dated October 1998 and enclosed form) indicating that the completed forms must be returned to the Minnesota Department of Health (“Department”) by February 15, 1999. The Department requests voluntary submission of the protocol used for testing.

• The Minnesota Disclosure Statute states that the Form is not a rule¹ for purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act (Minn. Stat. Chapter 14, including section 14.386).

• Reports filed are public data. [Note: Under the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act, trade secret information² collected by a state agency is classified as not accessible to the public. See Minn. Stat. Chapter 13, Section 13.37.]

¹Rule means every agency statement of general applicability and eomplex effect, including amendments, suspensions, and repeals of rules, adopted to implement or make specific the law enforced or administered by that agency or to govern its organization or procedure. According to section 14.390 of the Administrative Procedure Act, a “rule” provides that a rule is exempt from Chapter 15, and section 14.386 does not apply to the rule has the force of law unless the context of the statute delegating the rulemaking authority makes clear that the rule does not have the force of law.

²Trade secret information means government data [collected, created, expressed, mated or disseminated by any agency; political subdivision or statewide system including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, process or proprietary information if the affected individual or organization, 271.14, subdlvison 5, paragraph b, and its subdivisions, file written request with the agency to protect it from disclosure under this chapter. The agency shall approve or deny the request. If the agency approves the request, the agency shall designate the data as containing trade secret information and shall not disclose it to anyone unless the individual or organization requesting protection consents to the disclosure.