PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017

TO: Field Sales Force DATE: March 21, 1994

FROM: Barbara Reuter/Sales Programs and Information

SUBJECT: PM USA Point of Sale Material Philosophy

Maintaining the competitive advantage that has been developed over time for our brand trademarks is critical to their future success. Creating and placing POS which enhances the added value of our brands is also critical and must be properly managed to ensure that our overall corporate strategies and objectives are met.

To assist the field sales force in accomplishing these goals, the following clarifies our corporate philosophy regarding POS and outlines initiatives currently under development.

Flex Fund Price Off Promotion POS
As communicated previously on February 17, 1994 in Document 155, for the second quarter and until further notice, all Flex Funds are to be used exclusively for running Marlboro Price Off Promotions. Non-customized Marlboro Price Off POS will continue to be available in support of these promotions.

Additionally, several types of custom Marlboro Price Off POS will also be available to accounts that want to include their store name or logo.

To further support price promotion, whenever possible, a price call out space will be included on B headers to communicate pricing.

Effective immediately the types of POS detailed above are to be used exclusively for Marlboro Price Off Promotions.

Continuous POS for all Brands
In an effort to upgrade all continuous brand POS, senior sales management will be requested to identify ongoing requirements for at least four brands, excluding Marlboro. Select POS items will then be produced and made available to the field. Details regarding these items will be communicated under separate cover.

Optimal Placement of POS and Fixtures
As you know, optimal placement of POS and fixture is essential to maximize the return on our investment. As a result, ideal store layouts which illustrate the preferred placement of PM USA POS and fixtures will be developed for each trade class. This information should be used as a guide to achieve the desired PM USA look in each account.

Your support of this philosophy is imperative if we are to advertise a strong presence for our brands. Together we can ensure that our brands are advertised in a manner that is consistent with our long-term goals.

HARD COPIES provided by: NYO TO VP/RSS, TMDS, SSDS, TMPM, TMSMS, NAMS, RMAS, HRMS, REMS, SYMS, TRMS, SAMS, RIMS, STS, ORTS, BITS, AMSS, FVb, INHS, PRls.
For Internal Use Only.