PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

120 PARK AVENUE NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592

TO: Mr. Colin Goddard
Mr. Roger Walk
Mr. Eric Windholz

DATE: September 25, 1996

FROM: Matthew N. Winokur

RE: Draft ETS Communications Resource Book

I have enclosed a revised edition of the Message Point section of the draft ETS Communications Resource Book. Given all of the edits to both the first and second drafts which have been requested, it seemed only fair to try to incorporate those comments and others provided subsequently to offer you an amended version, harmonizing all the recommendations, for your consideration.

Wherever possible the revised edition adheres to the spirit and letter of the original. Following are some of the structural changes:

• A new opening “Overview” sequence of messages is suggested using those already cited throughout the document. These are placed at the beginning to offer top line messages which may be supported in subsequent sections.

• References to exposure study research has been moved up to the Overview section as have the other arguments which seem related to the underlying weaknesses of the ETS science. You’ll note that references to “personal monitoring studies” have been deleted. It seems a technical point to explain how the actual exposure data are obtained, and a white paper is available elsewhere in the binder to elaborate.

• The section on respiratory effects has been consolidated, providing one for alleged effects on adults and another for alleged effects on children. And the asthma arguments which were previously a third section are now placed under the adult and children sections.

• The original Science and Public Policy section remains unchanged. But an alternative version is suggested at the conclusion. The title suggests a discussion about the broader issue of how science in general, not just ETS, and public policy interact rather than further discussion about how ETS science should be evaluated more carefully by scientists and policymakers. The former is the bigger debate and, because of it, we have the opportunity to position ETS in the context of a larger issue due with sound science, reversals in scientific opinion and unnecessary regulation.

20725083