PHILIP MORRIS USA Youth Smoking Prevention
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

TO: DATE: August 3, 1999
M. Berlind, T. Borelli, K. Karagan, P. Desel,
C. Levy, D. Laufer, J. Lenz, C. Johnson,
G. Little, J. Mahleras, E. Merlo, J. McDaniel,
D. Nicoli, S. Rissman, J. Slavitt

FROM: Karen Chaikin/YSP
Christine Hohrmann/Issues Management

SUBJECT: Tobacco Retailer Responsibility Initiative – Final Report

Attached is Preventing Teenage Access to Tobacco, the final report presented to the
Attorneys General of the Tobacco Retailer Responsibility Initiative (TRRI) – a project
endorsed by the National Association of Attorneys General (NAAG).

TRRI’s mission is to provide assistance to AGs in proactive measures to prevent the sale of
tobacco products to minors. It's focus has been the application of consumer protection
authority as a tool to prevent tobacco sales to minors.

The report provides historical background, activities on tobacco-related issues, and
suggested activities for AGs, most of which we have already heard about.

Following is a brief review of chapters 3-7 and a list of Appendices:

Application of Consumer Protection Authority. Recommends the use of consumer
protection laws as a means to enforce violations of the minimum age sales law. In addition to
these laws providing greater penalties than the state sales laws, it allows AGs to
address the actions of the storeowner rather than the actions of one individual sales
clerk. The report describes the expansion of the application of this authority since it was
started in 1987 with a private action, Kyle v. Store 24, followed by actions in Massachusetts
(1994 and 1995); Kansas (1996); New York/Massachusetts/Vermont (1996) (i.e., Assurances
of Discontinuance); and promulgation of rules by the Massachusetts AG (1998).

Enforcement Issues: Building Alliances in Tobacco Enforcement. Suggests that AGs
form alliances with government agencies, the public health sector, and the FDA to participate
in tobacco enforcement efforts. These alliances would be helpful in those states
that do not enforce the law in conjunction with illegal sales detected during Synar and FDA
inspections. Additionally, AGs may be able to use the results of FDA and Synar inspections
bring consumer protection actions when sales to minors meet certain criteria of state
statutes or rules. The report also notes that the MSA would appear to provide AGs with the
resources to initiate these actions against retailers when it can be documented through
initiations.

2074880379