PHILIP MORRIS USA INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017

TO: Field Sales Force DATE: March xx, 2001

FROM: Eileen Schauer / Sales Promotions & Communications

SUBJECT: Youth Access Prevention -Underage Sales Policies & Penalties

As you know, Philip Morris has a long-standing commitment to youth smoking prevention and youth access prevention. Over the past few years, through our Action Against Access initiative that was introduced in 1995, we have established policies and programs in support of this commitment, as well as penalties for retailers who do not comply. In keeping with PM USA’s mission of responsibility, I am writing to update you on changes to these policies and penalties.

We Card Signage
Effective immediately, every workload store must display two pieces of We Card or equivalent signage. This signage must be in place within 45 days of a store becoming part of the workload.

If a workload store does not comply with this policy, it will not receive any Philip Morris resources, including merchandising programs, promotions and TSM visits. This penalty remains in effect until the retailer displays two pieces of We Card or equivalent POS.

Please refer to Doc. #002 for information about the We Card program and how retailers may order these materials free of charge.

Retailers Fined or Convicted of Selling Cigarettes to Minors
Currently, we withhold merchandising benefits from retailers that are fined or convicted of selling cigarettes to minors (upon written notification from state enforcement agencies). This policy and process has not changed; however, effective immediately, the penalties have changed as follows:

Violation Penalty
1st 1-month suspension of merchandising benefits and promotions
2nd 3-month suspension of merchandising benefits and promotions
3rd 12-month suspension of merchandising benefits and promotions if the violation is within 24 months of the 1st violation.

COMMUNICATED VIA OUTLOOK MAIL 3/xx/01 TO THE ENTIRE FIELD SALES FORCE, NO HARD COPIES PROVIDED BY THE NYO. FOR INTERNAL USE ONLY.

Doc. #xx
2080192458