PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017

TO: Gina Fawcett DATE: April 17, 1995
FROM: Patrick Pisciatelli

SUBJECT: Marlboro Ultra Lights _Test Market_

As we discussed, the following forwards for your review the background information concerning the Marlboro Ultra Lights test market along with specific trade issues.

Background

Marlboro Ultra Lights Kings and 100’s were introduced into three test markets during 1989. These markets were Indianapolis, IN, and Portland, OR, on April 17, 1989, and Nashville, TN, on September 18, 1989. During 1994, the test market was expanded to include Kentucky, TN. The Marlboro Ultra Lights test market is now in its sixth year.

Our objective has been to restore and maintain Marlboro Ultra Lights to the four test markets and restrict further distribution outside the designated area.

Trade Issues

Marlboro Ultra Lights has been found in a number of retail stores outside the test market areas. This has been an issue for almost as long as the brand has been available. Approximately 70% of our current sellers are selling Marlboro Ultra Lights to about 400 retail accounts located outside the designated test market area. The product has been found in 21 states. These are preliminary numbers based on data received from the STARS group.

Selected wholesalers use Marlboro Ultra Lights to win over retail accounts (located outside the test market) from their competitors. This creates an unfair sales advantage for those wholesalers not designated as Marlboro Ultra Lights distributors.

Retailers have used similar tactics to gain distribution of Marlboro Ultra Lights. A retailer will demand their distributor to supply the product or else they will take their business elsewhere. For example, Clark Oil (a chain of 80 stores throughout the Midwest) threatened to take their business to a wholesaler that could supply them with Marlboro Ultra Lights. In addition, a Sam’s Club in Indianapolis allegedly supplied retail accounts in Northwest Indiana.

Please note, the sales organization has attempted to alert two times in the past to contain distribution of the test market. Philip Morris notified most customers by letter in April 1991 and May 1992 that we would discontinue selling test market product any customer selling outside its designated area.

If you have any questions, please let me know.

Sincerely,

S. Simmetta
Cc: Ellen O’Donnell



21083535