MEMORANDUM

November 3, 1993

TO: L. H. Gains

FROM: M. E. Viso

SUBJECT: Experimentation Using Charcoal to Remove Nitrogen Oxides from Cigarette Smoke (PROJECT B 451, CMP)

In an earlier memorandum, I outlined work using charcoal impregnated with 1,3-butadiene as a filter additive to reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx) delivery in mainstream smoke [1]. This experimenta-
tion indicated that cigarettes containing either untreated
charcoal or butadiene impregnated charcoal had lower NOx delivery
than cigarettes containing no charcoal. The question arose as
to whether NOx delivery could be reduced using untreated charcoal
and whether NOx delivery was related to the amount of untreated
charcoal used.

Experimentation has been carried out to address these issues.
The results from this experimentation seem to contradict the
previously obtained data that NOx delivery can be reduced using
charcoal filters. No reduction in NOx delivery was seen using
untreated charcoal. Additionally, no relationship was seen
between the amount of untreated charcoal used and the NOx deliv-
ery.

Two possible sources of this contradictory data include variabil-
ity of the method used to assay NOx delivery or inhomogeneity
in the nicotine content of the tobacco in the experimental cig-
arettes. Further experimentation will be performed to help
clarify the results.

EXPERIMENTAL

A carton of 1188-93 cigarettes was removed from the freezer and
allowed to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. The cigar-
ettes were then weighed, selected and those weighing from 1.06 to
1.09 grams were retained. Calgon type PCB 12 X 30 mesh charcoal
was impregnated into the outer filter portion of each cigarette by
removing the outer filter portion, placing the charcoal into the
cavity, and reinserting the outer filter portion. Any part of
the amount that extended beyond the tipping paper was cut off.
The filters of 89 charcoal incorporated into the filters were 50
mg. A range of 60 to 90 charcoal was placed in each cig-
arette and then reinserting the outer filter portion into each
cigarette and then removing it.



20826/3196

65536/7676