PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

To: R. D. Carpenter and J. L. Charles Date: April 24, 1978

From: J. Booker, S. Drew, R. Ferguson, and R. Levins

Subject: Chemical and Salmonella/microsome Differentiation of Elmenhorst Cold Trapped and Impacted Trapped WSCs from XSD3NX (bright + NaNO3)

SUMMARY

Chemical and Salmonella/microsome assay data on WSC from a high nitrate cigarette (XSD3NX; bright + 6.7% NaNO3) suggest that there are significant differences between Elmenhorst cold trapped (ECT) and Impacted trapped (IT) WSCs from this cigarette. Because of these data, we suggest that additional biological evaluation(s) be conducted on a cigarette containing a high level of filler nitrate (e.g., added NaNO3) using WSCs prepared by both IT and ECT procedures.

INTRODUCTION

Interest in nitrate addition to tobacco filler has been stimulated by reports of decreased NOx activity of WSCs from such cigarettes. The addition of nitrate to filler has been reported to affect both WSC composition and cigarette delivery. Among the effects reported are reductions in puff count, TPM, nicotine, and polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) level.2

The however, nitrate addition also leads to large increases in the levels of many smoke components: nitromethane,3 nitrobenzene4 and nitrosamines.5 The reason for these increases presumably is that the oxides of nitrogen (NOx) produced on smoking are reactive with many components in smoke.

This NOx reactivity has also been demonstrated to lead to aging artifacts (methyl nitrite).6 The gas phase from high nitrate cigarettes tends to be more reactive than the particulate matter, and a relatively large amount of 4-nitrosoaniline is formed at the particle surface level in these compounds. High nitrate cigarettes decreased cation content of IT WSCs with the addition of air.

Other studies on nitrogenous compounds in the cigarette tar have shown that high nitrate cigarettes described above give differences between normal diffracted (ND) and Impacted trapped (IT) biological activity.

The chemical difference (X639NX) shows this variation.