MEMORANDUM

                                           January 10, 1989



TO: State Activities Policy Committee
     State Legislative Counsel
     T.I. Regional Vice Presidents/Directors



FROM: Walter N. Woodson

In anticipation of anti-smoking rhetoric after the release of the
25th anniversary report on "smoking and health" from the surgeon
general, The Institute's public affairs division is providing
factual information on a number of tobacco-related topics to the
media and general public. Attached are several items you will
find of interest and possible use.

The T.I. press release

A new booklet, "The Anti-Smoking Campaign: Enough Is Enough"

An Executive Summary of the above-mentioned booklet

January 9 and 11 T.I. advertisement which appeared in major
cities in the following newspapers: Washington Post, NY
Times, LA Times, Chicago Tribune, Philadelphia Inquirer/News,
St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Houston Chronicle, Atlanta Journal/
Constitution, Detroit News, Miami Herald, Portland Oregonian,
Dallas Morning News, Denver Post, Charlotte Observer,
Richmond News Leader/Times Dispatch, Cincinnati
Enquirer/Post, San Francisco Chronicle, USA TODAY

A national survey of public attitudes on a number of
tobacco-related questions

It is clear that in addition to many tobacco issues will
high this month. In public attention to the surgeon general's report,
the American Medical Association is planning a "Tobacco Use in
America" conference in Houston, January 27-29. Congressional
participants include Reps. Andrews, Durkin, Synar, Luken and
Poricelli. Sponsor have said they will forward conference
recommendations to the new administration and to the 101st
Congress. No doubt recommendations will also find their way to
state and local lawmakers.

Please let me know if you have questions or would like us to
share copies of this material with members of your staffs.

Attachments



cc: Mr. Samuel D. Chilcote, Jr.   Mr. Charles H. Powers
     Ms. Marianne M. Dawson    Ms. Susan W. Stuntz
     Mr. R.V. Rey, Jr.         Mr. Stanley L. Temko, Esq.
     Mr. William Irish          State Activities Staff
     Mr. Robert Lewis



                                               TINY 011/766