THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH—U.S.A., INC.



January 24, 1977

MEMORANDUM

TO: Drs. Hockett, Huebner, Jacobson, Sommers and Stone

FROM: W. U. Gardner

SUBJECT: Application No. 973A
Ronald E. Rasmussen, Ph.D., University of California, Irvine, Calif.
“A Genetic Study of DNA Repair in Inbred Strains of Mice”.



This is essentially a basic approach to the possible inheritance
of the capacity to repair DNA in mice. It is known that such differences
do exist in man. The assumption is that faulty DNA repair may lead to
carcinogenesis, induced by chemicals, ionizing or uv. irradiations, etc.
Excision and repair of DNA that has been damaged can now be quantitated
by permitting only the synthesis of the repair DNA by the addition of
hydroxyurea to the cultures that have been exposed to U.V. or alkylating
agents. The uptake of 3H thymidine gives quantitation of the excision and
subsequent repair. Radioautographic methods can also be used for both
repair and replicative DNA synthesis.



Lung tissue from 7 contrasting strains of mice will be exposed
in vitro to the alkylating agent, 4-nitroquinoline oxide (NQS), and
checked for differences in damage and repair. Other chemicals that result
in other types of DNA damage that may be repaired will also be used to
detect possible strain differences in repair potentiality. It has been
shown that labeled DNA is bound in nuclei and that they stay there for
some time. The cellular localization after 3H instillation of base will
be followed in mice of the several strains. These experiments will be
done in collaboration with Dr. Rau. Projected studies for the subse-
quent years will depend upon the results of the first year.



The budget, which supports ½ salary for the applicant and ¾ that
of two research associates, seems reasonable. The refrigerated centrifuge
requested would seem essential for this work.



Although the applicant has other research grants and others
pending his study of the effects of smoke and C8O2, he should be supported.




W.U.G.





wug/ah

501-9912