→ Chia, Lam, Hale, Monk F.Y. Staff please review to keep prior.

MEMORANDUM URGENT

TO: All Vice Presidents
All Department Heads
All Records Coordinators

FROM: F. A. Burke
Vice President Law & General Counsel

DATE: May 26, 1994

RE: Retain All Documents

Under an order in litigation, the Company is required to retain literally all documents regarding certain subjects.

Effective immediately, Brown & Williamson employees are required to retain indefinitely all documents relating to (1) the manufacturing, testing and composition of tobacco products, paper, filter or any other material contained in, relating to or used in the manufacture, testing and composition of tobacco products or (2) the nicotine content of tobacco products (cigarettes, pipe tobacco, smoking tobacco, smokeless tobacco, cigars, reconstituted tobacco, expanded tobacco, etc.) and ligarette products.

Please note that this requirement overrides the Program is that the order requires us to retain relevant copies and temporary documents. The other effect concerns electronic documents.

Under the order, the term "document" means every form of recorded information, whether handwritten or printed, and including electronic information as follows:

videotape . . . phonograph record, tape record, mechanical or electronic sound recording or transcript thereof, retrievable data (whether coded, taped, coded, electrostatically or electromagnetically recorded, or otherwise), or other data compilation from which information can be obtained, including but not limited to . . . computer storage tapes, computer storage cards or discs. . . .

Thus, all such electronic information that is relevant to the subject matter is required to retain indefinitely. If you have any questions about how to save electronic information, please call MIS.

For your information, the litigation involved is the Castano case in Louisiana. As you may know from media reports, a group of plaintiff’s law firms has filed a complaint alleging a class action against the industry on behalf of smokers who claim to be addicted. Plaintiffs obtained an order which froze the companies' documents at a time when Brown & Williamson was not a party to the case and there are good arguments that the order does not apply to us. After careful consideration, we have decided that the best course for the Company is to comply.

/sa/

F. A. B.



569306064
PRODUCED FROM WEB SITE