Lexilland

MEMORANDUM Jun6 16, 1978

TO: Joe Giordano

FROM: Laurie Moroz

RE: Definition of Threshold Perception Index

The Threshold Perception Index is an expression of the probable stopping power of an outdoor ad. It is a measurement of the average number of elements correctly identified by respondents after viewing the ad at the threshold exposure (which varies from .2 to 18 seconds). The index is computed as follows: Every element recalled by every respondent is assigned one "point"; in addition, one point each is given for correct brand name and product identification. All respondents' points are then accumulated, averaged, and expressed as a percentage. (Elements of an ad must head line words or phrases, as well as pictorial elements.)

For example, if a respondent, after threshold exposure, claims to have seen "a pack of True cigarettes and a 5" his answer constitutes five points - one point each for the pack, the word “True” and the “5”, and one point each for correctly identifying brand and product. If the average number of elements recalled by respondents for that ad was 4.86, the Threshold Perception Index would be 486%.

The norm of 400% was developed through correlation of Communicus’ pre-testing and post-test data. (Post-testing estimates the number of people who have noticed an outdoor ad in the marketplace.) An ad which earns a Threshold Percention Index of 400% or more is likely to perform well in Communicus' post-testing, i.e., is likely to be above average in attracting attention under actual viewing conditions.

It is theoretically possible for an ad to receive no correct brand identification, but still have a Threshold Perception Index of 400% or more. This is unlikely since recognition of the brand name is usually worth two points. Indeed, however, if such a situation did occur, it would probably mean that the ad had excellent stopping power, but that it attracted attention with strong elemental elements which had little or nothing to do with the brand itself.

It is important to remember that the Threshold Perception Index is merely suggestive of actual performance and must always be evaluated within the context of all findings from the same test.

/dm
cc: G. Finn
R. Glavé

lm