THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE

1875 I STREET, NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON, DC 20006
202/457-4800 * 800/424-0676

SAMUEL D. CHILCOTE, JR.
President

MEMORANDUM                                  August 3, 1993

TO: The Members of the Executive Committee

FROM: Samuel D. Chilcote, Jr.

RE: S. 262, “PRO-FEDS”
S. 673, Vending Bill

At noon today the Senate passed, by voice vote, Senator Lautenberg’s “PRO-FEDS” legislation as an amendment to the Treasury, Post Office and General Government Appropriations Bill, H.R. 2403. The amendment would ban smoking in the Federal workplace except in “separately ventilated” areas. The amendment is the same as S. 262 (enclosed) except for (1) the deletion of the provision establishing an Environmental Tobacco Smoke Advisory Office at EPA (p. 12) and (2) the addition of an exemption for VA hospitals.

Only Senators Ford and Lautenberg spoke on the Senate floor. Other Senators submitted statements for the record. (The Congressional Record of the debate will be forwarded as soon as it is available.) Senator Ford’s remarks focused on the experience of the airlines where air quality has declined over the years since the airline smoking ban was enacted.

Immediately afterwards the Senate passed, by voice vote, a Bingaman Amendment banning in Federal buildings, the sale of tobacco products in vending machines and the distribution of free samples of tobacco products, except in areas where minors are prohibited. Bingaman’s amendment is essentially the same as his bill, S. 673 (enclosed) introduced in March.

Last year Senator Lautenberg offered his “PRO-KIDS” amendment to the Labor-HHS-Education Bill. The Senate approved that amendment, by voice vote, September 16, 1992, but it was dropped during the conference due to the objections of Congressman Natcher.

Efforts will be made when the conferees meet on H.R. 2403, most likely in September, to delete or modify both the Lautenberg and Bingaman Amendments.

SDC/sr

ENCLOSURES

1. The Members of the Committee of Counsel
2. The Members of the Management Committee
TI Senior Staff