MEMORANDUM March 5, 1991

TO: Dr. James F. Glenn MAR 11 1991 CC: HCM
FROM: Hilda and Leonard Zähn RFG

SUBJECT: International Conference on Indoor Air Quality and
Climate, Toronto, Canada, July 29-Aug 3, 1991

A speaker at the opening session said that in seeking to convert energy in recent years, "we have created a monster." The monster has several faces: medical problems, building problems (which have expanded beyond the “sick building syndrome” of commercial buildings to include residential homes and even apartments), and social, economic and political problems.

Other aspects are involved as well. Research into indoor air quality (IAQ) has grown at a tremendous rate since the first international meeting on the subject was held in 1978. Until recently, scientific attention had been focused chiefly on outdoor air quality; now, however, there is a new science -- indoor chemistry -- with more funds and more investigators, especially in the industrialized nations. There also is a surprising amount of work going on in less-developed countries, much of it in collaboration with western researchers.

There is more concern about IAQ because most people spend about 80-90% of their time indoors during their lives, and closed structures generate and retain more harmful or potentially harmful organisms, agents, gases, odors, and particulates. The list contains hundreds of items, some of them produced naturally by the human organism.

The overall situation is compounded by the fact that the complex actions of many indoor substances as well as the interactions of these agents are presently little understood. The immense amount of variability of human reactions to agents indoors adds to the complexity of trying to determine what factor(s) may create a risk and who is at risk upon exposure.

Scientists are not always helpful with data that often seem to be a bit far out. For example, talking of shower subjects everyone to inhalation or dermal absorption of a number of volatile organic compounds (VOC's) in the water. Many of these chemicals have been shown to be harmful to health.

It seems valid to say that people in all developed countries generally is not as careful today day as they were 20 years ago. There also may never enter evidence by these chemicals. It is equally valid to say that nobody needs worry.

Leonard
Zähn
Eng. Eng. ScD.