MEMORANDUM

TO: M. S. IRELAND

FROM: M. M. THOMPSON

SUBJECT: PROPOSED STUDIES ON THE EFFECTS OF CYCLODEXTRINS UPON THE COMPOSITION
OF TOBACCO SMOKE

INTRODUCTION:

This proposal outlines a research project focused on the use of cyclodextrins as
a filtering device for benz[a]pyrene in cigarette smoke.

In brief, cyclodextrins (CyD) are carbohydrates formed by the enzymatic
degradation of starch. The majority of CyDs used are alpha, beta and gamma
CyDs; these are cyclic in which six to eight glucose molecules, respectively,
are linked in a large ring by 1,4-glucosidic linkages. This results in a rigid,
conical molecular structure with a hollow interior. The dimension of the
interior ranges from 5.7 to 9.6 A depending upon the number of
glucose units and is relatively hydrophobic. The exterior is relatively
hydrophilic while the exterior of the cavity is hydrophobic. These properties
of the CyD allow the formation of stable CyD complexes with other molecules.(1)

Today cyclodextrins are widely used in foods, cosmetics and toiletries due
to their ability to molecularly encapsulate flavors and fragrances. It is this
ability that makes CyDs attractive for use in cigarettes. In fact, the
possibility of using cyclodextrins in cigarette filters has not been unnoted.
Several studies on the application of cyclodextrine to stabilize cigarette
flavors have been reported: (1) et al. investigated the stabilization of
menthol, furaneol, linalool, geraniol, citral,
citronellal, phenylethyl alcohol, coumarin and cinnamaldehyde.(2) From this
work several patents were obtained.(3,4) In addition to these studies,
numerous other people outside of the tobacco industry have investigated CyD
complexes of materials common to both their interests and cigarettes.(5) For
example, studies conducted by P. Schickendantz have addressed the use (CyDs) for
flavor stabilization and delivery. He explored the complexation of citral and
orange oil with beta-cyclodextrin.(7)(8)

A second area of CyD research has involved incorporation of CyDs into caps
as a filter for the purpose of improving the smoking performance and taste
without imparting the aroma to the taste. The reduced amount of aromatics
delivered in the presence and flavor and smoke characteristics can be delivered
through the addition of CyDs and subsequent complexation of aromatic compounds.
The use of CyDs as a filtering device has been investigated by others.(9,10)
For example, U.S. Patent 3,825,404 describes a process for removing
objectionable components from tobacco smoke using cyclodextrins.

OBJECTIVES:

The objectives of this research project are to:

1.  Determine the effectiveness of various CyDs in complexing with benz[a]pyrene
    in cigarette smoke.

2.  Evaluate the effect of CyD filtration on the sensory characteristics of
    cigarette smoke.

3.  Investigate the feasibility of incorporating CyDs into cigarette filters.



ST-6782906