THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE

1875 I STREET, NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20006
202/467-4800 • 800/434-0876

SAMUEL D. CHILCOTE, JR.
President

July 7, 1987

MEMORANDUM

TO: Executive Committee

FR: Samuel D. Chilcote, Jr.

The House Committee on Ways & Means today commenced three days of public hearings on options to increase revenues. Today’s witness list and statements relating to excise taxes and advertising limitations are attached.

Today's session was chaired by Rep. J.J. Pickle (D-TX), who made misleading statement. Most witnesses on the first three panels expressed general opposition to excises; two supported increased excise taxes. A fourth panel discussed proposals related to advertising as Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA) presided.

Highlights included:

o In opening testimony, Dennis E. Ross, Tax Counsel for the Treasury Department, assured the Committee that President Reagan will accept no deficit-reduction tax increase. Ross affirmed the administration’s opposition to all options included in the Joint Taxation/House Ways & Means staff report, except for the President's own revenue increase proposals. He also suggested that Reagan may accept a proposal to tax as corporations certain limited partnerships.

o Rudolph A. Oswald, director of the AFL-CIO’s Economic Research Department, reaffirmed the federation’s opposition to excise taxes. In a strong statement, Oswald said, “Turning to excise taxes now would represent a breach of faith with the American people. A shift to excise taxes merely creates more inequity in the tax system. They are bad public policy.”

o Paul Haard, National Association of Manufacturers vice president of taxation and fiscal policy, said, "We oppose without exception any change that would increase federal revenues derived from selectively-imposed excise taxes." Haard said if Congress is determined to raise additional tax revenues, it should be done by imposing a consumption-type tax at a uniform rate on the broadest possible base of taxable goods and services.

864159