TOBACCO INDUSTRY RESEARCH COMMITTEE

September 26, 1962

MEMORANDUM

TO: Executive Committee: Messrs. Cullman, Cutchens, Gray, Gruber and Jain.

FROM: T. V. Hartnett, Chairman

As a preliminary to the Executive Committee meeting on October 3rd, I have discussed with Dr. Little the subject of where the research program of the TIRC is heading and what impact can be expected from the deliberations of the Surgeon General’s Committee and its ultimate findings.

Rather than provide you with detailed observations in this regard, which will be available to you by April 15th, I have attempted to summarize generally his thoughts through the medium of this memorandum. In any case, Dr. Little feels that the industry will need to continue to widen and deepen its support of research into the various effects of tobacco use and its relation-ship to health. This assumption is based upon the expectation that the findings of the “Expert Advisory Committee” of the Surgeon General will be either:

(a) Condemnatory to knowledge... (This will require research as a necessity for defense and maintenance of existence.)

(b) Inconclusive, expressing a hazard by statistical inference even though lacking in clinical and laboratory proof. (A strong research program will be needed to prove the sincerity and determination of the industry to find out the whole truth on its own.)

(c) Uncertain or relatively favorable, indicating much more needs to be known about the subject. (Only by much more it be possible to clinch evidence that tobacco is not widely harmful, and forestall future attacks as much as possible. It would further serve to show that mere whitewashing does not satisfy the industry.)

Only by strong positive action taken now can the tobacco industry increase its long-time research program and show directly or by inference:

(1) Complete faith in the absence of any inhibitory or basic restrictive action against tobacco.

(2) A re-affirmation of its individual responsibility for continued research in an effort to find the...

(3) Its insistence on the complexity of the problems involved and on the need for more time through continuing research.

COR T1 3980