24
WYNDSOR, ERNST

MEMORANDUM August 12, 1981

CONFIDENTIAL

TO: W. T. Hoyt CC: WDh
FROM: Hilda Zahn SCG
           RFG



SUBJECT: ¥4500 Symposium on Host Factors in Human Carcinogenesis
          Cape Sounion, Greece, June 8-11, 1981

N.B. This memo was held up because we were awaiting
     copies of pictures taken by someone of Hirayama’s
     slides. These prints finally arrived, but not all
     are in sharp focus. They are reproduced at the end
     of this memo for whatever information you can de-
     rive from them. The prints are a bit clearer and
     are being sent to Marvin Kastenbaum for his pro-
     fessional perusal.

¥4500
The symposium, organized by the International Agency for Re-
search on Cancer in Lyon, France, brought together some 100 sci-
entists from 19 countries to discuss the difficult question of
determining the reasons for individual differences in suscepti-
bility to cancer. The objective is to identify those at higher
risk.

Cigarette smoking was mentioned quite frequently, and it was
apparent that virtually each scientist present considered smoking
to be the single greatest menace to health.

¥ Takeshi Hirayama of Tokyo, though asked to speak on the sub-
ject of reducing cancer risk by a diet containing daily doses
of green-yellow vegetables, spent the first part of his slide pre-
sentation on the hazards of cigarette smoking. His talk was
garbled and his “slide show” was too rapid, but he was clear
enough on two items: (1) some non-smokers males get lung cancer
when their wives are heavy smokers, and (2) smoking is at least
as important as diet in the development of stomach cancer. (This
information was reported by us in a special memo during the syn-
posium).

There was no comment at all from the audience on his cigarette
data, but a lively debate took place over his vegetable results.

Another recent recruit to the antimoking ranks, Dr. Tricho-
poulos of Athens (co-author of a passive smoking report a few
months ago), drew divided opinion with a paper that claimed an
association between smoking and liver cancer.

The presidency, whose currency state included reviews of the lit-
erature methodologies, the scientific and the technical aspects,
the chairman of the everyone hands would contribute to solving the
additional criteria.

¥12000
[Illegible text]

¥4500
Dr. Kaklamanis of Athens presented a paper on the role of diet in
cancer, with particular reference to breast cancer. He concluded
that there is no evidence that dietary fat plays any significant
role in the etiology of this disease.



RFG:md 




