CONFIDENTIAL:

MEMORANDUM MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION November 19, 1981

TO: Mr. Klopfer
FROM: Susan Stuntz :”:”
RE: ACS “smoking or health” conference, opening session

Conference chairman Charles LeMaistre opened the general session by citing the 350,000 excess death figure. The conference, he told the 250 invited participants, is an "opportunity to awaken America by producing a national blueprint for action that is realistic and achievable."

He called upon the various work groups to produce a document that will unit on sponsoring agencies, while stressing that the conference is not an ACS affair. Position papers forthcoming from the various work groups will outline the “magnitude of the problem,” what has been done in the past, "obstacles" to solution, steps to solution, and long range planning.

Apart from a 5-minute keynote address by HHS Secretary Schweiker, the rest of the morning session was devoted to an address by former SG Luther Terry and a discussion of his address by a five-member panel.

Schweiker’s talk, politely received by the audience, was another call for voluntarism. Schweiker, describing his advocacy of a policy of prevention rather than cure, talked of a stepped-up HHS campaign to educate the public as to how they can change their habits to reduce health risks. He mentioned a new focus at HHS on information dissemination, including a 10-year program at the Heart, Lung and Blood Institute aimed at health education.

Also major goal at HHS, is a stepped-up employer-based well-ness initiative campaign. Telling the audience “there are few health dangers as serious as those caused by smoking,” he promised to fight for full funding for the Office on Smoking and Health in the 1983 budget.

Terry, taking the 1964 Surgeon General’s Report as a point of reference, devoted his 45 minutes to a discussion of what is known now that wasn't known then, how well the 1964 report has stood the test of time, and “is cigarette smoking less of a problem than it was then?"

The validity of the 1964 report, which Terry described as "one of the most significant scientific reports in medical history," has been strengthened time, he said.

TIMN 0096884
T031333