4

2-May-85

VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL

MEMORANDUM

TO: Bill Buckley

FROM: Michael Brozek

RE: Daily Minnesota Update

Bill, as per your instruction, here is a report on our progress with regard to legislative matters in the state of Minnesota. For purposes of order, we will approach this report from the aspects of legislative program and legislative support.

LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM:

As decided on Friday, April 26 in Minneapolis, at a meeting attended by legislative counsels from the Tobacco Institute, R. J. Reynolds and Philip Morris, which included Dale Florio of Philip Morris and Kent Wold of R. J. Reynolds, specific legislators were assigned to industry lobbyists for direct lobbying contact. This activity is being monitored daily in order to determine any shifts or progress in the Senate Finance Committee and House Appropriations Committee. A meeting will be held Thursday, May 2 at 2:00 P.M. at the Capitol Rotunda in St. Paul, in an attempt to document legislative responses and comments. These meetings will be held daily until further notice.

Tentatively, the Senate Finance Committee will meet Monday, May 6 at 8:00 a.m., to hear testimony on the Senate version of the cigarette tax/health department package (SF 776). A representative of Covington & Burling, either Mr. Rupp or Mr. Beder, will be on site to offer testimony at this hearing. Additionally, Mr. Vernon Dempsey will be present for direct legislative contact on Friday, May 3 in discussions concerning the sampling issue.

An additional approach has been undertaken to deal directly with the Attorney General’s office, concerning a legal opinion to the legislature regarding the smoking ban portion of SF 776 and HJ 810. Legislative counsel Tom Keln, in meetings with the Justice Department, has requested review of this legislation within the context of the federal preemption. It is understood that these conversations have been, and will continue to be confidential.

CONFIDENTIAL
MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION

TIMN 457963