November 21, 1995

MEMORANDUM

TO: PETER G. SPARBER

FROM: J. CRAIG BARNES

1. I would like to schedule a two hour meeting, as you recommended, for Monday, November 25. Nine to eleven, or two to four seem like reasonable times.

2. As to the question of objectives, strategies and actions, the change in nomenclature was adopted at the recommendation of the management consultant. He found the existing nomenclature confusing, and I agreed. As you point out, we can cover that at our meeting.

3. As to your reference to item b in your November 7 memo, I again followed what I perceived to be the task of an overall department plan. As I mentioned to you in our conversation of November 16, once the overall plan is approved, written plans with deadlines and specific detailed tasks will be produced on each section. I view the plan we are currently working on as being rather like the outline of a book: a task which must be accomplished before the writing of individual chapters is begun. The chapter on “record keeping/reporting,” what information you will collect, how you will solicit analyze it, and how often and in what format you will report it seems to me to be one of the chapters. I also recognize that without writing those chapters you haven’t got a book. If that's the most important chapter, let’s write it first.

4. There was, as you point out in this morning’s memo, a report due on Scott’s deployment and on HYD plans. The only time that the management consultant was available, that also met the major deadline of the media plan was last week, a week shortened by the holiday I reviewed your memo, and other matters Monday. On Tuesday and Wednesday I was in the control of others concerning polls and responses to G.A.S. Wednesday night, all of Thursday and Friday were devoted to the major plan. Sunday was spent writing the plan. The report was due with in our current on November 16, the day she discussed with Ann. But meeting on able to work me into her schedule because of the PM press conference punched out when Susan described to you the arrangement we had worked out with Baked, I told you about Ann’s scheduling conflicts and that she would be unable to attend the meeting. Then, Thursday night, she says she was going to suggest to Bill Byrnes that he look over her work.

                                                                        TIK 001841