STATE OF NEW YORK

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
ROLLIS S. INGHRAM, M.D.
COMMISSIONER

ROSWELL PARK MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
BUFFALO 3, NEW YORK

GEORGE E. MOORE, M.D., PH.D., DIRECTOR

May 16, 1967

Paul Rand Dixon, Chairman
Division of Scientific Opinions
Federal Trade Commission
Washington, D. C. 20550

Dear Mr. Dixon:

According to wire service reports and as printed in the Buffalo Evening
News May 9, 1967, a brief on behalf of the American, Brown & Williamson,
Ligget & Myers, Philip Morris, and R. J. Reynolds tobacco companies was
submitted by the Tobacco Institute to the Federal Trade Commission. This
submission was made the occasion for a false and libelous press release
attacking the scientific article "Tar and Nicotine Retrieval from Fifty-six
Brands of Cigarettes" that appeared in Cancer in March 1967. There is
nothing in the Tobacco Institute's report to suggest that the so-called tobacco
company “critique” contained any new factual information or raised any
questions that had not already been answered in the text of the scientific
article (as will be shown below). This report of the tobacco industry may
further confuse and mislead the public concerning the health hazards of
cigarettes and hamper and delay public health efforts to educate the public
concerning these hazards.

We would like to call your attention to the following points in our
scientific article on tar and nicotine in cigarettes: on page 329 in the sec-
tion "Meaning of yield per puff" it is pointed out that “the general distribution
of the data is essentially the same regardless of which way the yield is ex-
pressed” and the few exceptions to this statement are cited and discussed.
There are no grounds for the criticism in the Tobacco Institute stating that
“tar and nicotine of test cigarettes should have been measured on a per-puff
basis as well as for total weight.” They were.

A standard scientific procedure (confidence intervals) was used in all
yield graphs to indicate the “margins of error." Such procedures auto-
matically take some size into account (if the samples are too small, the
overlapping of the interval would prevent the assertion of differences be-
tween brands). Sources of error are discussed on pages 330 and 331 in