COLLEGE OF MEDICAL EVANGELISTS
School of Medicine

DEPARTMENT OF PEDIATRICS
VIRUS LABORATORY

1820 NORTH STATE STREET
LOS ANGELES 31 CALIFORNIA

January 23, 1956

Dr. C. C. Little, Scientific Director
Tobacco Industry Research Committee
5320 Empire State Building
New York 2, New York

Dear Dr. Little:

First let me express my thanks to you for the opportunity of attending the meeting with your group in New York last week. It was a most profitable meeting as far as I was concerned, and I felt that I gained a great deal by listening to the discussion by the experts. I hesitated talking more about toxicity because I felt that the main portion of the discussion should have centered around the problems of attempting to define normal plastic cell growth. I did get the impression that this will be a difficult problem. This was largely from the remarks of Dr. Engle at the meeting as well as some discussion that I had with him on Tuesday when I visited him in Bethsda. This same impression was reinforced when I talked to Dr. Margaret Murray when I visited her on Monday and of course, Dr. Guy’s comments to the effect that normal tissues when transplanted can result in malignant growth seemed to more or less clinch the matter. The basic problem seems to be one of whether at any given moment is potentially malignant or not me one of considerable basic concern. In discussing this with Dr. Engle and also with Dr. Murray, I made the suggestion which I hope to be able to follow up in the laboratory, that perhaps the human skin represents a source of homogenous materials where potential for somatic change is small. I feel this way because after repeatedly asking various individuals regarding the occurrence of neoplasma of the skin, I have repeatedly received negative answers. Certainly it would appear that at least with this particular cell type, the spontaneous rate of neoplasm is extremely low.

From the few preliminary studies that we have done with the Bella cell and the cow bone marrow extract in the media, it appears as if we presently have an available here a system that should offer some interesting answers to make important contributions to our understanding. I feel that if sufficient information can be gained from continuing work with this amount of tissue, then it should be possible to definitely substantiate with a series of laboratory investigations some definitive quantitative studies of the effect of various types of extracts on cell growth. I am planning to send you a more detailed communication in the near future regarding these preliminary results.

Sincerely yours,

[Signature]

H. B. Bessler, M.D.