THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH—U.S.A., INC.

110 EAST 59TH STREET
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10022

August 16, 1971

Dr. D. M. Conning
Senior Pathologist
Industrial Hygiene Research Laboratories
Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd.
Alderley Park
Macclesfield, Cheshire
England

Dear Doctor Conning:

The Council for Tobacco Research, as you are undoubtedly aware, has been engaged for many years in studies to determine the biological consequences of cigarette smoke inhalation by various small animals, both under acute and especially under chronic conditions. The best-known studies from this program are those that have been published by Drs. Cecil and Rudolf Loeninger, now of Lausanne, Switzerland, who have been recipients of Council grants-in-aid since 1957. There are, however, a number of others more recently inaugurated.

In 1965, we held a conference to review the devices and methodology for such investigations, with a view to improving them and so standardizing them as to increase the comparability of results obtained in different laboratories. An account of this conference, the considerations that led to its organization and of the conclusions reached, was contained in our Annual Report for 1965-66. Certain pages from this report are attached hereto.

The criteria to be met by a satisfactory mechanical device and the methods of using it have been further defined and refined subsequently during the course of a program to compare critically the best devices that were available at that time or that became available subsequently. An updated statement of these criteria as we see them now is attached.

The study of new after action of a new positive-pressure device that was designed since the 1965 conference has led to development of a relatively simple machine that meets most of the criteria that were set originally or added subsequently. A statement of its present status is attached.

Dr. Arthur San Frust, Director of the Institute of Chemical Biology at the University of San Francisco, California, has long been engaged in inhalation research and has served the Council as a consultant since this field arose. The 1965 conference mentioned. He has quietly spent a sabbatical year with us as full-time is a consultant in his engagement matter and under a returning contract.

Sincerely,

Robert O. Harrison
Director