ROBERT J. KRAMER
R.R. 3, Piqua, Ohio

October 14, 1968

Dear Mr. - - -

When we became aware of the harmful effects from micro concentrations of nickel,
from the research of published scientific information during 1968, we decided
to ascertain the presence and amount of nickel in soils and fertilizers, then
to ascertain the presence and amounts of the element in the plants growing
in the contaminated soil environment, next to identify the presence and the
varying amounts of nickel in the animals ingesting such contaminated plants.
Thereby identifying the source and mode of transferral of the nickel from the
soil through the plant cycle into the ingesting animals.

We were aware that anything getting to an animal cell must be carried to that
cell by the blood stream of the animal, and that we should be able to identify
the presence and variations in low amount of nickel in the blood of animals
ingesting foods/plants contaminated with varying amounts of nickel.
Scientific information indicated that nickel could be assimilated by the animal
system when inhaled by the animal as air contamination, when ingested by the
animal, or via contaminates of foodstuffs, when implanted beneath the skin of
animals, and absorbed through the pores of the skin of humans as an
industrial hazard.

We reasoned that this nickel should be found in increasing amounts in the blood
and organs of animals so contaminated with nickel, and that the organs
and containing areas of diseased cells should contain greater concentrations of
nickel, and set out to verify these hypotheses to our satisfaction. We began to
observe and document these conditions to see how man might utilize this knowledge
to discover and prevent primary contamination hazards and their distorting capabilities.

We learned that the Piqua area had been identified with varying amounts of
nickel in the soils, and that several farmers were using fertilizers containing
varying amounts of nickel. We also learned that there was a large amount of
nickel being used in the electroplating industry located near Piqua, Ohio.
This nickel was being discharged into the streams and rivers which flowed through
the area, and was contaminating the soils and plants growing along these streams
and rivers.

We began to collect samples of soil, fertilizers, plants, and animals from this
area, and to analyze them for the presence and amount of nickel. We also
began to observe and document the health conditions of the people living in this
area.



ROBERT J. KRAMER