April 10, 1959

Dr. Ernest L. Wynder
Sloan-Kettering Institute
141 East 68th Street
New York, New York

Dear Dr. Wynder:

I am enclosing herewith a copy of a letter which I wrote to the American Tobacco Company on February 6, 1957. This morning I read in the "Wall Street Journal" about the views which you expressed at Excelsior Springs, Missouri relative to cancer causing chemicals in cigarette tobacco.

We will start picking and curing our bright tobacco about the 15th of June this year and I intend to take samples of the leaf before curing; after curing in the fumes of an oil flame; after curing in the fumes of a bottled gas flame and after curing by the old fashioned method with a wood burning furnace, where the tobacco does not come in contact with the products of combustion. If no one else is interested in having these samples analyzed I will have it done at my own expense.

I am not a chemist nor I a scientist and, except for the presence of arsenic, I do not know what we should look for in the analyses of these samples. I would very much appreciate it if you would tell me how to proceed with this project in order to make it worth while.

I have recently had soil samples from our 1958 tobacco field analyzed for arsenic together with a sample from adjoining land on which tobacco had never been raised. The analyses showed no increase of arsenic over the 1958 tobacco land. This can be explained by the fact that we have not in recent years used any chemical containing arseniate and the 1958 tobacco land had never grown tobacco before 1957. The comparative production of bright tobacco in northern Florida is on relatively new land, until recently, was very short and tobacco was almost never grown more than once on a piece of land, generally rare exceptions. Bright tobacco has been grown for a sufficient large period in the Carolinas and until comparatively recently, all the insecticides used contained arsenate of soil. I have been informed that arsenate of lead will remain in the soil for a usually badly contaminated time. I am also told that certain plants and tobaccos from one or more them, have the characteristic of taking arsenic.

-1-