MURRAY ALAN KATZ
409 TULANE DRIVE, N. E.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO

August 6, 1962.

Director of Research
Phillips Morris, Inc.
100 Park Avenue
New York 17, N. Y.

Dear Sir:

At the present time I am engaged in the Maytag Research Project
at the Presbyterian Hospital in Albuquerque. The research, which
is carried out under strict medical supervision, is designed to relate
some 110 events with pulmonary function data of unselected, healthy
and diseased individuals. The data are correlated with subsequent
yearly testing on these patients.

From work on animals and humans it has been found that those
individuals with lung disease and/or cancer frequently differ from
norm by the presence of an atypical protein moiety. The failure to
establish a specific protein in every case is principally due, I be-
lieve, to the lack of refined techniques; for it appears that patients
with bronchopastic syndromes have a definite biochemical predilection
to these conditions and this factor may well be a protein. If we
were able, through refinement of existing methods, to obtain statis-
tical evidence for the existence of such a diagnostic protein and dem-
onstrate that these individuals having it show abnormal findings in
the battery of tests from the Maytag Project, it would appear that the
alleged carcinogenic and irritative effects of tobacco may be purely
coincidental and not etiological.

Thinking a subject such as this would be of great interest to you,
I should like to apply to you for a grant to conduct a research program
to test my thesis. The best technique for such a project is starch-
gel electrophoresis. The obvious advantage of this zone method over
the free-boundary one is that the former affords easy isolation of the
protein subtly, whereas this is impossible in the latter case. More-
over, if the type of zone analysis, the starch-gel method offers
better resolution than the paper technique.

Inasmuch as the Maytag Project data are rapidly growing and the
need for an additional program such as I have described is increasing,
a prompt reply would be appreciated.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely yours,
Murray A. Katz