Health Care
Freedoms Initiative

710 Bank Bldg.
Salem, OR 97301
(503) 375-3611
(503) 375-4250 fax

HEALTH CARE FREEDOMS INITIATIVE

Supporting
Organizations:

A.A.R.P.
Paul C. Comstock, M.D.
Oregon Medical Assoc.
Carmen Garcia (OHP)

Oregon City Physician
Concerned Physicians
of Oregon

Oregon Dental
Hygenist Association
(ODHA)

Oregon State Dentists
Association

Primary Care
Network Association of
Medicinal Physicians
(PCAMP)

Oregon State Council
of Senior Citizens

Limited Services of Oregon

Oregon Hearing Society

Pacific Northwest Health
Products

Mid-Valley Health Care
Advocates

Oregon Medical
Federation

Oregon Advocates are
Aging

Oregon Federation of
Health Professionals
(OFHP)

American Massage Assoc.

Chaplain Sister
Cheryl Peterson

Oregon State Nurses
Association

Save Oregon Seniors

Sue Wyrick, RN
Westside Support Group
for Health Care Reform

April 9, 1996

Dear Mr. Nelson,

Certain industries in the United States, such as the tobacco industry, have been obligated to pay a disproportionate share of publicly funded health care costs.

With an aging population and an increase in employer mandated health insurance requirements at the state level, costs to the tobacco industry are destined to increase. Only dramatic changes in the health care delivery system can prevent this spiraling cost.

Market research indicates 93% of Oregonians want alternative medicine included in their health plan. That is why the 1995 Oregon Legislature passed an alternative medicine bill, which was limited in scope.

The New England Journal of Medicine published a national study done by Harvard University, in 1993, which determined that over one-third of Americans use some form of non-traditional health care and pay for it out of their own pockets. This will not change if managed care and insurance companies have their way.

Meanwhile, adult agent’s non-for-profit forces have overly pressured physicians into the unexplainable function of commercializing their profession to the point of risk taking organizations. This subjective distortion of the physician's obligation has put at risk the health trust that is the central element of physician-patient relationship. Health care professionals are increasingly faced with the dilemma of choosing between patient well being and the profit of the health care industry. We believe this is not a dilemma that should be beneficial to the profit and our society.

The “Oregon’s Comprehensive Health Care Reform Initiative” (OCHRI), HCFI, will need to be supported by Oregonians who have launched the Health Care Freedom Initiative.

Sincerely,

Paul C. Comstock, M.D.
Chairman, Health Care Freedoms Initiative

P.S.  Please determine how to contact us at 503/375-3611.

cc:  Legislative Leaders
        Oregon Newspaper Editors
        Talk Show Hosts



R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Public Affairs Council
P.O. Box 12985
Salem, OR 97309