( Town of Jump River
TAYLOR COUNTY, WISCONSIN

February 24, 1978

EXHIBIT 1.

Robert W. Schroeder
Schroeder, Geddis, Riester & Moerke
Attorneys and Counselors
212 West Wisconsin Avenue
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53203

Dear Sir:

Re: Senate Bill 195
(Anti-Smoking Bill)

Robert, I am very happy you wrote me because we people up here in the hinterland don’t hear very much about these types of Bills, and who is lobbying for or against them, until they pass.

I AM VERY MUCH IN FAVOR OF THIS BILL because I myself was a sucker for about 40 years. Now, here I sit with an oxygen tank in my hands trying to get enough air to survive.

I applaud every young man and every young woman who chooses not to smoke. They show respect for the rights of others by first demonstrating respect for their own bodies. What a thoughtful example they are to all people (everyone from the youngest infant to the oldest great grandparent) when they refuse to follow the example of their smoking elders. It is adults who smoke who should be shamed by them. How asinine of these adults who smoke to ask that they be allowed to continue that travesty!

I am glad you indicated that your firm is Legislative Counsel for the Tobacco Institute. Now, please show self-respect and respect for the rights of ALL people who breathe air, by insisting that tobacco find other legitimate uses—uses which do not infringe on the rights of all human beings who have a right to breathe unpolluted air.

I know I can’t defeat you lawyers but I can “keep pecking away” and maybe, some day, I can sit down in a public place to eat without having smoke blown into my face; maybe I can listen to a speech or hear some music in a public place without enduring cigarette smoke and maybe I can consult a doctor without being asphyxiated by cigarette smoke in the waiting room before I get to see him.

Just last night I consulted my doctor because I was choking.

You can be sure I will contact my representative and tell him.
I will hold him personally responsible if this Bill fails to pass.

Sincerely,

Robert H. Jauken, CHAIRMAN
Town of Jump River - Taylor Co.

680531263



680531263