Arizona

RIPE SYINGTON
OFFICE

STATE OF ARIZONA
EXECUTIVE OFFICE

October 15, 1996

The Honorable Grant Woods
Attorney General
1700 West Washington
Phoenix, AZ 85007

Dear Grant,

This letter is regarding State of Arizona vs. Grant Woods and
Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System v. American Tobacco, Inc., et
al. the contingency fee lawsuit you have brought against tobacco interests on
behalf of AHCCS.

My office has filed that suit, which appears to be a verbatim reproduction
of suits filed elsewhere, AHCCS Acting Director John Kelly has forwarded to
my office a copy of the complaint. He has also forwarded a copy of the
contingency fee contract you have entered with outside counsel, namely
Steve W. Berman of “Berman & Berman”; Don Barrett and Steve Mitchell,
Mitchell is listed twice on the agreement, both as president of "Steve
Mitchell, P.C." and as Steve Mitchell, partner at "Van O’steen and Partners.”

After reviewing the complaint and the contingency fee agreement with
the trial lawyers, both I and Acting Director Kelly believe that you have put
the state and AHCCS in a very bad position. In writing to inform you that
AHCCS is withdrawing from this suit. You will receive formal notice of this
fact under separate cover from Acting Director Kelly, together with client
instructions to seek immediate voluntary dismissal of the lawsuit.

I realize that you believe that you have acted competently on behalf of
the state, and that you specifically believe that your lawsuit positions
AHCCS to profit from a hoped-for settlement yet to arise from the current
litigation against tobacco firms. The “alleged” settlement that has occurred to
date is miniscule and worth less to the state than the staff time already
devoted to analyzing this issue. However, the facts of the matter, the
applicable laws and all supporting precedent offer little support for what you
have done and no supportive warrant for how you have done it.

205949-46

1700 WEST WASHINGTON PHONE, ARIZONA 85007 • (602) 343-3131