Harvard Medical School

DEPARTMENT OF CELL BIOLOGY



25 Shuttuck Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02115
(617) 432-1830
(617) 432-1144 (fax)


August 13, 1995   RECEIVED
AUG 2 9 1995

Dr. Arthur Eisenberg
Council for Tobacco Research
900 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022

Dear Dr. Eisenberg,

I am writing to seek an invitation to apply for research funding from your agency. Recently, I have been appointed as an assistant professor in the departments of Pathology and Microbiology & Immunology at Stanford University School of Medicine. There, I will begin my independent research centered continuing biochemical studies on how the cell cycle controls DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. This follows on work I began in Marc Kirschner’s lab originally at the University of California, San Francisco, and now at Harvard Medical School.

Although my current work is focused on the biochemistry of the cell— —nd replication, my enclosed curriculum vitae should attest to my long-standing inter— —est. My graduate work with David Baltimore at MIT focused on the role of spl— —iceing how the cell cycle is altered in transformed cells and



I enclose a general plan of the s— —et broader set of projects Council to fund is to study mechanisms by which these report in Nature anly that govern factors important for replication. The inhibitors have established the importance of  of Cell Biology. We are currently f— —example, the proteins p34cdc2 and kinases and DNA replication. Our di— —replication. The funding of our proje existence of the novel target and to test induced this target. Depend on the p— —ing its dependency... —we to allow other novel targets for guided family of these inhibitors. 



I require design, with viable table  — peptides, substituents which could serve as beginning models for a required inhibition, outlines implications for chromatography.

I enclose my curriculum vitae and a plan for the research project, and copies of two papers relevant to this work. I will be in my office at Stanford beginning November 1st, 1995.



Sincerely,
Phillip A. Beachy, Professor of Cell Biology




PAB:js
