October 23, 1961

Dr. Ernest Sondheimer
Associate Professor of Plant Biochemistry
State University College of Forestry
Syracuse University
Syracuse 10, New York

Dear Doctor Sondheimer:

In reply to your letter of October 10, 1961, we are glad to send
you a set of the forms which we use for filing applications for grants-in-aid.

You are probably aware that all matters of research policy and all
recommendations for grants are the responsibility of our Scientific Advisory
Board. The names of its members are shown in the enclosed copy of our last
Annual Report. The enclosed pamphlets will give some indication of the sub-
jects which fall within the general area of their interest. Whether support
can be furnished will depend upon current needs and priorities of interest
as determined by the present status of the program and in relation
to the budgetary situation.

The best course will be to outline a proposal on the enclosed forms.
The original is intended for this office and the carbon for your files.
Please note the signature of an officer of administration is required if
the work is to be carried out in a university, hospital or other institution.

Our Board meets at approximately quarterly intervals. Applications
are circulated to study groups or subcommittees for advance consideration and
then are listed on the agenda of the next meeting of the Board, following com-
pletion of committee work. Sometimes a site visit is considered advisable in
preparation of recommendations.

We could expect an application which reaches us by November 1, 1961
to be placed on the agenda of the meeting which has been scheduled for December
2-3, 1961.

We will be very glad to bring any proposal you wish to submit promptly
ly to the attention of the subcommittees and the Board.

Sincerely yours,



       Sigurd S. Nickelsen
       Robert G. Hockenberry, Ph.D.
       Associate Scientist, Field Director

encl. (4)  Annual Report - 2 pamphlets - application blanks

P.S. Forty percent of our budget is excluded for grants to institutions ex-
cept those which are approved as research foundations.