July 16, 1968

Cecilc Leuchtenberger, Ph.D.
Head, Department of Cytochemistry
Swiss Institute for Experimental Cancer Research
Rue du Bugnon 21
1005 Lausanne (Vaud)
Switzerland

Dear Doctor Leuchtenberger:

Your letter of May 11, 1968 was read and discussed at the May 25th meeting of our Scientific Advisory Board.

It was their consensus that further areas of common scientific interest between you and the Board may be found when sufficient time has been given to the analysis of results obtained ed in the past, improvement of mechanical equipment for exposing animals to smoke inhalation, discussion of virus problems, etc. Hence they did not feel ready to encourage you to give notice to present members of your staff who might be needed for further projects in future.

In order to provide time for you to conclude your present work, for stock-taking and planning conferences on future programs, they agreed to continue support to your program at substantially the current level to a termination date of January 1, 1969. Meanwhile, the Board indicated a willingness to consider work other than the present project if you can advise them of a project of interest to both you and the Board.

If you are ready with any such proposal by August 1, 1968, it can be considered at the September 14th meeting of the Board. The next meeting thereafter will be on an undetermined date in December with a deadline on November lst.

As you know, certain steps are being undertaken in the hope of perfecting the equipment for chronic exposure of small animals to whole fresh normal cigarette smoke and of developing a better method for measuring the actual exposure of lung surfaces, especially to particulate material. While it is hoped that these goals may be reached quickly, there is an element of uncertainty as to when every thing will be available ready for resuming animal inhalation studies on a large scale. Meanwhile, however, plans can be laid, feasibility or studies may be constituted and perhaps studies and gas-phase calls in our series may be planned to be possible, and at-times omitting requiring attention and some of these might be emphasized in relation to this.

Sincerely,
[Signature]
A. W. Kistler