March 16, 1967

Donald J. Kararo, M.D.
Chief, Pulmonary Disease Research Laboratory
V. A. Hospital
50 Irving Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20422

Dear Doctor Kararo:

Upon the recommendation of the Scientific Advisory Board to
the Council for Tobacco Research, a financial grant has been approved in
the amount of $77,629.00, in accordance with the application filed by you
under date of October 27, 1966.

It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance
by the appropriate institutional authorities.

The Board has taken into account your estimate that the project
will extend through two years, and it is anticipated that, following a re-
view of progress in the first year and the receipt of an application for
renewal, prior consideration will be given to your needs in the allocation
of funds in the succeeding year.

Please refer to the Statement of Policy containing the condi-
tions and terms under which the above-mentioned grant is to be administered,
which you received with your application blanks.

In preparing semiannual progress reports we will appreciate it
if you will use the format shown on the enclosed sample and furnish us with
15 copies. We would also like to be advised of any published papers result-
ing from this grant. When reprints are available we would appreciate 25
copies.

The Council for Tobacco Research will make an announcement of
this award in the Annual Report of the Scientific Director and in press re-
leases according to established practice.

Any questions of a scientific nature that may arise concerning
the project should be referred to Dr. Robert C. Hockett, Associate Scientific
Director, and we will appreciate your keeping him informed of progress at
intervals.

After discussing the approval of the project with the proper
officers of your institution, will you please notify us of your acceptance
of this grant under the stated terms and indicate the date upon which it
will be come active.

Sincerely yours,

W. H. Hoyt
Executive Director

enclosure