DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY

HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL

15 SHATTUCK STREET
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02115

TEL. 794-3600

FABIAN ECKSTEIN, M.D.
PROFESSOR OF COMPARATIVE PATHOLOGY
CHAIRMAN OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY

October 29, 1971

Dr. S. C. Sommers
The Council for Tobacco Research, U.S.A., Inc.
110 East 59th Street
New York, N. Y. 10022

Dear Dr. Sommers:

I would like to clarify some aspects of the Research project which we submitted to the Council for Tobacco Research, in an attempt to demonstrate that our interest is directly concerned with an area of cancer research which your organization is interested in supporting, i.e., the pathogenic mechanisms of oncogenesis and their control, as relates particularly to chemical carcinogenesis.

We feel that the immune mechanism is far more efficient in preventing the development of malignancy than do currently well established proving tumors. The development of many tumors may indeed be considered, at least in part, as the result of failure of the cellular immunity defense against tumor specific antigens. In these situations, either the oldest antigentic malignant cells may be permitted to grow and thus escape immune defenses, or humoral antibodies may block specific cellular immunity.

Considerable experimental evidence has been obtained in support of the considerations described above. As reported by ourselves and Dr. Old several years ago, it is relatively easy to demonstrate the increased resistance to tumor induction afforded by agents which stimulate the immune system, such as BCG, but impossible to obtain favorable results with this type of treatment when the tumors are well established.

Our purpose is to devise better methods of enhancing the immunological reactivity of host to weak tumor antigens and better techniques of stimulating selectively cellular immunity while depressing undesirable humoral immunity. Thus we plan to significantly decrease the rate of appearance of tumors induced by chemical carcinogens as well as increase than guinea pigs which they appear. Our studies use incubated mice for these studies rather than the timer after which we appear. We plan to protection against leukemia because these agents are minimized the chance of these experiments. In addition, several antigen must be studied in mice, deliberately chosen for their apparent known viral oncogenic properties in animal models, by application of antibody against them. We propose to use with immune cells transferring the BALB/c, C57 black and aging strains.

Carcinogens methylchloroanthrene and 3,4,4’,5-tetrachloro benzidine. We plan to run or control groups of animals given these agents without any immunological manipulation. The tumor incidence in these controls will be compared with that in the treated animals.

We are attempting to determine whether it is possible to prevent the development of tumors by stimulating the immune system prior to exposure to chemical carcinogens.

Sincerely,

Fabian Eckstein, M.D.

FE:js