RJR CONFIDENTIAL

Memorandum

Subject: Weekly Highlights
Applied R&D Date: April 13, 1983

To: Dr. G. R. Di Marco From: D. H. Pielh

ITEMS FOR WEEKLY BRIEF

✓ WORK HORSE - Employee Mail panelists preferred a WORK HORSE control over a modified WORK HORSE with the prune concentrate reduced 50%. This test was directionally preferred for longer lasting flavor. The results conducted to determine if the natural prune concentrate could be reduced significantly in the event of a crop failure.

✓ Water Solubles Analysis of G-7 - levels of extract were varied to determine the correlation between water solutes in G-7 and filling value. Correlation curves which can be used to predict the increase in filling value as extract levels decrease are now available. At this time, lowering the water solutes content of G-7 to increase filling value and thereby reduce costs does not appear to be feasible due to the lack of availability of the additional stems and scrap required to make G-7 with less water solutes. However, the possibility of eliminating the G-9 dust extract as a means of improving G-7 uniformity and quality is under investigation.

✓ New Packaging Manager - Mr. Jim Joy, currently Corporate Quality Packaging at Kellogg’s, has been hired as Program Manager for New Packaging Development. He brings 17 years of experience in flexible consumer packaging and will be starting on May 16.

✓ On-line Laser Trials - During the past week, assistance was provided to the start-up of NOW 100 on a line/min. This product can only be run at speeds to 5000 cigarettes/minute in order to attain the required air dilution. Problems were encountered with one maker on NOW 100 when one laser tube went out due to electronic problems - the operating speed was reduced to 3500 cigarettes/minute so that dilution could be maintained until this problem could be repaired.

GENERAL ITEMS

✓ Robot for Factory Sampling - The microbot “Reach Mover” robot has been received for possible application to QA sampling. Preliminary trials indicate that this low-cost unit will need only minor modifications before factory sampling trials can be attempted. A sample collection tray has been ordered from Mechanical Development.

✓ RJR Resin Machine Cleaner Solution - A RJR general machine cleaner solution is available for use on the Hull-A Cigarette for the past week. The cleaner is quite effective and replaces such items as “Nowax” and “Nu Film” Cleaners.



BUNT F/240-4286-1