FR MID The latest thing, I hope for you
August 16, 1964

Jerry - along's it’s only a formality.

Mr. N. L. Lewis
Suggestions

Re: RJR AND P. MORRIS PROFILE, GAINS AND LOSSES

Following Mr. Glover’s request, this provides an analysis of RJR and P. Morris market structure and dynamics. The analysis includes:

     Smoker profile information
     Quitters and new smoker information
     Gains and losses with other companies

The “quitter” and “new” smoker information is provided purely to understand differences between RJR and P. Morris’s overall trends.

Key findings in RJR and P. Morris switching dynamics are:

1.  P. Morris has a much younger franchise than RJR. 50% of P. Morris are 18-34 compared to 36% for RJR and 35% for the total market. (As information; the median age for RJR is 40 years versus 33 for P. Morris.)

2.  P. Morris and RJR have equal “quitting” rates. However, P. Morris’s quitting level is offset by an almost equal number of “new” smokers. Whereas RJR has a lower level of “new” smokers.

3.  P. Morris has more net “new” smokers within the 18-24 age group than RJR. On the other hand, RJR has fewer net “quitters” in the 25-34 group than P. Morris.

4.  RJR’s only net losses by companies is to P. Morris. Merit is the prime cause. 36% of RJR’s losses are to P. Morris; Merit alone is 13%. Losses to Merit are heaviest from Vantage, Salem FF. Though not as large, other losses come from Winston PF and Real.

5.  Marlboro FF is the only brand style where RJR has net gains from P. Morris. These gains go primarily to Winston FF and Lights, P. Morris.

    Total Marlboro gains and losses run at equilibrium. Gains from Marlboro FF are offset almost equally by net losses on Winston. Total RR gains are most of its gains coming from Camel (FF & Lights) and most of its 1963 losses.

6.  P. Morris loses to both American and Lorillard. Although P. Morris corporate growth net gains from switching are the major reason, its gains from RWN, attributable to RJR.



BEST COPY

(A statistic would make this data valuable.)