Royal Postgraduate Medical School
UNIVERSITY of LONDON

Hammersmith, Du Cane Road, London W12 0HS

Department of Histochemistry
Tel: 0743 2030 Ext. 3231 Direct line: 01-740

18th June, 1987

Dr. D.H. Ford
The Council for Tobacco Research
900 Third Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022
U.S.A.

Dear Don:

It is lovely to talk to you on the phone. As I have said to you my outlook
of life is now different. May I please request an extension without further
of our grant entitled “Investigation into the Role of Regulatory Peptides in Human
Lung Disease” Grant No. 1438A, which we held jointly with Steve Bloom for the
past years. The reason is that we have now established a very strong link
with our colleague surgeons, in particular Professor Majid Yazbeck from Harefield
Hospital and Mr. John Wallwork from Papworth Hospital, both groups of which are
involved in heart lung transplants.

We have done sufficient pilot experiments to be able to say that a number of novel
techniques are now established in our Unit, over and above biochemical numerical
estimation and chemical characterisation of extractable peptides, and their
immunocytochemical localisation in tissue sections. These include *in vitro*
autoradiography for the mapping and characterisation of binding sites and *in situ*
hybridisation/northern blot analysis for the study of the mRNA levels of
neuropeptide/endocrine peptide synthesis. These techniques now work very well in
human tissues and we have established a baseline to investigate pathology. Unlike
earlier days when availability of human diseased lung and heart tissue was
difficult, now we have increased use of surgical transplantation technology. This
material is plentiful and fully available. The potential of investigating
diseased state in human applying modern technology is therefore with us and
we would very much like to write up our existing extension grant application in the
best of our abilities and hence our delay. These techniques could open up a new
field of investigative pathology.

I very much hope this will not cause too much inconvenience to the Council for
Tobacco Research and I look forward to hearing from you.

Best personal regards,

Ullio
J.M. Pollard, DSc FRCP FRS
Consultant in Chemical Pathology
Head of Department of Histochemistry



P.S. We are also doing work on the effects of nicotine on lung tissue.