Don - Bad ragad - Charlie



July 5, 1978

Mr. H. C. Roemer
Vice President and General Counsel
R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27102

Dear Jack:

Thanks for your prompt response to my recent letter, and for extending the deadline for my research grant until January 31, 1979. This will give us time to complete the research that is already in progress and to develop a comprehensive final report.

I am enclosing a copy of a recent letter from Ray Roseman in which he has proposed a new exciting additional analysis of data he collected some years ago. A carbon of the response to Ray is also enclosed for your files. The area that Ray has become more deeply interested in is the role of anger in heart disease, and that we are able to assist and guide him in the analysis of previously evaluated data from the WOS prospective study is most gratifying. Hopefully, Ray will invite me to collaborate with him in a joint paper and this resolves the question of how we should acknowledge support for this research. It is appropriate to indicate that as follows: "This study was supported in part by a grant from R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc." Since Ed Jan has summarized so many legal issues that I do not fully understand, I am sending him a carbon of this letter along with the correspondence with Roseman, so that we can obtain two expert legal opinions;

I have just returned from a very productive three week trip to the Middle East where I attended conferences on stress and adaptation in Israel, and consulted with colleagues in Greece and Turkey. Hans Eysenck and Ed Jan each will be visiting Taupe next week to begin research on a new project entitled "origins and correlates of smoking behavior". I look forward to sharing these developments with you in more correspondence and a subsequent visit to Winston-Salem. I appreciate your suggesting that Dr. Colby send me a copy of his translation of my response to a recent German book on stress and heart disease. A carbon of this reply to Dr. Colby is enclosed. I look forward to meeting him on a future consultation visit to Winston-Salem.

Sincerely,

Best personal regards and best wishes,



CHARLES D. SPITZER, PH.D.
Professor of Psychology
Director, Center for Research
on Community Psychobiology
ECU Medical J.C.B.
103 Brown Bldg., 295-14
Greenville, N.C. 27834



5016 225