June 15, 1978

No. 9 BQM

Mr. J. H. Sherrill, Jr.

RE: IMPROVED WINSTON KING RSM TESTING

Three R&D type tests have been conducted on Full Flavor Non-Menthol products to date:

1. Original RSM Test (1976) - A feasibility test incorporating six key product variables and 27 test products to test the RSM methodology for application to our product testing (5 additional products were used to validate the results).

2. FF Non-Menthol Screening Test (1977) - A test incorporating 16 product variables and 20 test products to determine the relative importance of the product variables in terms of their effects on consumer product acceptability.

3. Improved WINSTON King RSM Test (1978) - A 45 blend RSM test incorporating seven key product variables and ranges determined from the previous screening and RSM work designed to test against Marketing action standards for an improved product.

All of the tests were tested on a paired basis through NFO among WINSTON, Marlboro, and Other NFP smokers. WINSTON King was used as the control product throughout in the 1976 and 1977 studies. In the current 1978 study, WINSTON King was the control product among WINSTON smokers and Marlboro was the control among Marlboro and Other NFP smokers.

The results of these studies have been used to develop RSM models which include the effects of the seven key product variables on consumer product acceptability, taste level, nicotine level, and other laboratory measured variables. Approximately 85% of the variation in consumer preference is explained by the RSM model, indicating a good "fit" to the data.

In addition to having actual results of 97 product variations tested over a wide range, the RSM model can be used to “simulate” any number of products over the entire range of the variables studied in order to determine areas of product types which would meet the Marketing action standards. Over a half million products were simulated using the RSM model. The results indicate that less than 10% of four products would meet the action standards and, with that, attached lists the entire ranges of the variables tested along Table I, four areas of “potential” products which would meet action standards.

50175 4086