THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH – U.S.A., INC.

900 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10022

ROBERT F. GERSTENBACH
PRESIDENT

April 22, 1987

Jack Gauldie, Ph.D.
Dept. of Pathology
McMaster University
Health Sciences Centre, 4H17
1200 Main St. West
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada LSN 3Z5

Re: Grant No. 1683A

Dear Dr. Gauldie:

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. is pleased to award you a continuation grant in the amount of $76,538.00 for the period from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988 for the study proposed in your application “Fibroblast-Mast Cell Interaction in Inflammatory Lung Disease.” It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional authorities.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond June 30, 1988, even though we recognize that your application proposes a study extending two years beyond that date. Therefore, if by November 30, 1987 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including a report of progress to date, your request will receive consideration.

Your attention is called to the enclosed “Important Procedural Information for Grantees.” Please fill in the attached "Notice of Research Project" and return it to me. Drs. Harold McAllister, Research Director, and David Stone, Associate Research Director, will serve as your primary contact with our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant. Please consult the staff as questions or problems arise, and keep us informed about the progress of your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances at the end of each grant year. We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of expenditures and commitments to assure that you agree with your institution’s official financial statement at the end of the grant year. Please note that year-end deficits cannot be recovered by CTR, even from funds transferred in a statement of prior years. Finally, please be aware that failure to receive timely financial advice will result from our grants office staff stop further grant payments. Appropriate forms are sent with this notification and we hope that the end of the fiscal year administrative problems will be relatively minor and we hope that this letter of our grant policies will obviate any possible mis understandings.

Cordially,

Rof Gutentach
Robert F. Gerstenbach

Enclg.
CRS: MJS

cc: Mr. Brian J. Underdown

THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH – U.S.A., INC.