March 12, 1979

Shearson/American Express

Re: Long Range Plan: 1980-1984

Attached is your copy of the Planning Guide. Please study it carefully. It will be available at your request for a 30-minute follow-up review (and answer question) meeting with you during the March 14-16 period.

Please note on the attached the excerpt section on the Development of the External Forecast. Specifically, this involves the procedures and notes of the following areas where we need your Department’s inputs.

• Economic effects of cigarette pricing: My memo of February 22 to you is a starting basis for discussion of this. What we need is a list of retail pricing assumptions and their estimated impact on industry volume. Jesse Siff of Siff, Oakley & Marks, an outside consulting economist, is available to work with us, if we desire.

• Industry unit volume and RJR volume and share: Most critical and top priority is to update since it indicates how much replanning against the market share issue is necessary.

We also need to determine if there is a way to make the forecast of greater operational value to our Manufacturing and Leaf/Blend Development Departments.

Manufacturing says what we say we will need and what we actually need end up to be quite differently. Leaf says because of the 18-24 month lead time required for leaf buying and leaf processing and storage (additional storage or expanded processing), a more accurate forecast is needed.

• Consumer Environment: Consumer values and lifestyles, cigarette categories, demographics and geographies, competition and consumer attitudes toward smoking. We need to assess the marketing implications of current and changing trends in these areas.

A thorough analysis of competitive strengths and weaknesses is most important since it may indicate contingent or alternative ways to gain share of market. The emphasis should be on American, Bow and Liggett? For example, what are the geographic pockets of Liggett’s business in terms of volume. Can we target more aggressive counter display and vending efforts in these areas to get their business?

50189.6772