Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
HARRISBURG
17120



THE SECRETARY March 22, 1965

The Honorable Warren Magnuson
Chairman, Committee on Commerce
United States Senate
Washington, D. C.

Dear Senator Magnuson:

As a past President of the Association of State and Territorial Health
Officers and the representative of that Association on the National Interagency
Council on Smoking and Health, I have been designated by our Association to
write to you to express the opinion of our Association concerning S. 559 and
S. 547. These bills are concerned with federal requirements for cigarette
labeling and advertising and are before your Committee on Commerce for
consideration.

At its 1964 annual meeting our Association, composed of the health
officer of each state and each territory of the United States, passed a recom-
mendation to the effect that since cigarette smoking is a proven health hazard
the state health departments and the United States Public Health Service need to
develop comprehensive programs to help to bring under control the habit of
cigarette smoking. A copy of our Association recommendation is attached.

In view of the fact that our members unanimously agreed that scientific
evidence shows that cigarettes are in truth a health hazard, we would like to be on
record supporting the type of federal legislation embodied in S. 559 or S. 547.
We feel that the major health hazard for which cigarette smoking is a causative
factor, such as cancer of the lungs, emphysema and chronic bronchitis, are so
important today that people who smoke cigarettes should be able to read on the
labeling on the cigarette package the dangers to their health they are facing by
continual cigarette smoking.

We also feel that the Federal Trade Commission needs to have its
position clearly understood and strengthened as far as labeling and advertising
is concerned. Whether this needs specific wording as to advertising as in S. 547
or simply leaves the Federal Trade Commission free to propose and undertake
such advertising control as it wishes under its existing authority is a matter about
which we do not feel sufficiently knowledgeable to comment at this time, except
to say that the opinion of the Federal Trade Commission regarding this area of
cigarette and their ability to administratively should be duly much weight.



5015 8572