629

THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI MEDICAL CENTER

2300 North State Street
JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI 39216   Area Code 601
WB-4-658

Department of Microbiology

December 20, 1979

Dr. Robert C. Hockett
Research Director
The Council for Tobacco Research-USA Inc.
110 East 59th Street
New York, New York 10022

Dear Dr. Hockett:

Thank you for your letter of December 5, 1979 informing me of the procedures for submitting a research grant application. I have followed your advice and have outlined the support of projects being investigated in my laboratory. I trust this information will be considered by the Scientific Advisory Board, and I look forward to their decision.

Research Problem

1. Background - We are investigating the biological and biochemical aspects of Herpesvirus pseudogenus by employing three related equine herpesviruses (EHVs) which have proven to be ideal model systems as the three viruses share DNA sequences but differ markedly in biological activities (see review provided, O’Callaghan et al., 1978). In the last year we have shown that UV-irradiated virus or standard virus preparations enriched for defective interfering (DI) particles will transform primary hamster (Imbred LSH) embryo cells, and several cell lines have been transformed by these herpesviruses. It has been established that the EHVI-1 and EHV-2 (cytomegalovirus) cell lines are oncogenically transformed and have established numerous tumor cell lines from the tumor tissues (malignant fibrous sarcomas that metastasize to lung, heart, bone, and CNS); the EHV-3 transformed cells have been inoculated into hamsters within the last two weeks.

In the case of the EHV-1 system, DNA hybridization analyses have shown that cells of transformed cell lines, tumor tissues, and tumor cell lines harbor viral DNA sequences 2-20% of the genome (0.4-4.0 copies/cell). Some of these viral genes are retained even after prolonged (10 passages) passage in either cell culture or in animal (transplantable tumors), and the expression of these viral DNA sequences has been shown by 1) demonstration of antibody to EHV-1 proteins in the sera of tumor bearing hamsters and 2) detection of viral structural and nonstructural proteins, host membrane and nuclear space by immunofluorescence. Presently, the cell hybridization technique being carried out in our technical facilities will allow us to induce fragments (labeled high speed markers) in our translocation experiments.