611

Boston University Medical Center

School of Medicine
80 East Concord Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02118

Department of Biochemistry

September 21, 1979

Received
Sept. 26, 1979
SEP 26 1979

The Council for Tobacco Research--
U.S.A., Inc.
110 East 59th Street
New York, NY 10022

Dear Sir:

For several years we have been exploring the relationship between lung mechanical properties and connective tissue change in different models of human pulmonary disease. As an outgrowth of these experiments, it has become clear that more information is needed with respect to the normal aging processes in the lung and the interrelationship between aging and normal lung repair mechanisms. For many reasons it is apparent that it is quite important to study pulmonary connective tissue alterations and responses to injury in the aging hamster lung. The nature of this proposed program is briefly described below.

The lung similar to all other organs progressively accumulates physiological decrements with time. The Hamilton study of an aging human population recently reported the relation among pulmonary function, smoking, cigarette smoking and mortality. A striking relation was noted between forced vital capacity and mortality which appeared to be independent of cigarette smoking or other environmental insults. In both man and experimental animals the aging lung reveals loss of elastic recoil and increase in the size of respiratory air-spaces. Both of these properties are related to changes in the connective tissue network of the lungs. It is not clear whether these changes are due just to the mechanical wear and tear effects of a lifetime of breathing or to alterations in the pulmonary connective tissue synthesizing machinery which then alters the ability of the pulmonary connective tissue to repair itself after injury. We intend to explore these questions by comparing physiological, structural and biochemical parameters in the whole animal as well as biochemical studies in lung organ and cell cultures.

We plan to use hamsters in our experiments in part because we have extensive experience with these animals including the development of emphysema and fibrotic models of diseases and in addition because the animals are relatively resistant to pulmonary infection. A colony of approximately 200 male hamsters an average age is estimated to be established at our institution. Since the hamsters will live years has been established at their institutions, and a static companion sample of hamsters from the colony and then killed and the lungs are removed for histological studies.