January 22, 1981

MEMORANDUM

TO: W. T. Hoyt CC: WDH
FROM: Leonard S. Zahn RFG
WUG
SUBJECT: American Heart Association RCH
Miami, Nov. 17-20, 1980

The AHA’s annual session has become one of the largest medical meetings in the world. This session had about 140 presentations and a huge display of drug companies and equipment manufacturers. The size and complexity of the event prompted the association's program committee chairman, in a speech on “Science and Advertising,” to point out certain aspects that he said were adversely affecting the organization. He specifically criticized drug companies that sponsored their own seminars and special events at various hotels to promote certain drugs, and he even took a general swipe at scientists who engage in "advertising" to promote their own findings or hypotheses with insufficient data.

The press, which was well represented, discussed this in terms of washing dirty linen, but wrote nothing about it. Nor did the writers express other than casual interest in the several reports dealing with various aspects of smoking or the press conferences that contained the usual antismoking comments.

It is likely that the heart association will increase its antismoking activities in 1981 because of its new president, James Schoenberger of Chicago.

The highlights:

1. “Induction of cholecystitis and pneumonitis by inhalation of cigarette smoke constituents” — Larry Dillon, New York. This was another report from Carl Becker’s group at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center (Becker co-chaired the session at which Dillon spoke) on the alleged allergic and other effects of smoking.

Becker had previously reported experimental induction of inflammation of the gallbladder, and Dillon elaborated in his report. He described details of an experiment involving anesthetized dogs—8 inhaled tar-derived material (TDM) and 7 serving as controls, inhaled a phosphate buffered saline solution. The TDM was in the form of a powder derived from the aqueous extracts of cigarette smoke condensate. Four of the TDM-exposed animals and two of the controls had their gall bladders exposed surgically at the start of the experiment. TDM exposure lasted 60 minutes; blood samples were taken from

Leonard
S. Zahn
M.D.
LAW ASSOCIATES COUNSEL



BOX 213, LINCOLN ROAD - CIGARETTE, N.J. 07034 (201) 875-7445