Vor. 4, No. 10

New York’s largest Ford dealership

K

Kenmore Motor Co., Inc.

3330 DELAWARE AVENUE Riverside 6-1000
KENMORE 17, NEW YORK

FORD

Mr. L.M. Darr Pres.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
1 Exchange Pl.
Jersey City, N.J.



(TOBACCO DOES NOT CAUSE LUNG CANCER )



This headline would create quite a sensation. Millions of folks who have been frightened by the publicity, stopped smoking, which they thoroughly enjoyed. 
I am sure you will agree that they are justified in doing so, because no one would keep doing something that so many Doctors and research men have agreed and disagreed on as the use of Tobacco and the possibility of contracting lung cancer. 
While watching a recent television program, I saw how they had painted the backs of mice with the tar which had been extracted from smoke of a battery of cigarette machines. This tar apparently was so strong an irritant that it destroyed the hairs, and after repeatedly being painted on the skin of the mouse back, eventually did develop a cancerous condition. There must be many other substances you could use on the mouse and create the same condition much quicker. 
I have read of the research that has been done with human like action of the cigarette smoking machines, the function of the filter, nicotine comparison when used without filters etc. 
It is impossible that some smokers are contracting Lung Cancer from sulphur irritation! 

My theory is this:
a- Pipe smokers who use long matches; always wolf for the match to get a good flame before holding it to the bowl of the pipe. Thereby the fumes of the sulphur flame follow the same discipline as the air.
b- A cigar smoker follows a quick light, right off the pipe smoker. 
c- A cigarette smoker gets a quick light, right off the sulphur flame. 
Cigarette smokers have universally formed a habit of cupping the flame of the match, whether it is for there own light or in offering to light the cigarette of a friend.

This procedure has happened many thousands of times in my presents in the past thirty five years that I have smoked cigarettes; however the other day while playing golf, laws offered a light by one of four some-one who had the habit of cupping his hand to protect the flame which



50% 0710