October 26, 1984

INTER-OFFICE MEMORANDUM

TO: Dr. G. R. Di Harco
Dr. A. Rodman
Dr. H. E. Stave

FROM: P. W. Best

SUBJECT: Conference Report;
“6th International Symposium on
Analytical and Applied Pyrolysis”

Date of Conference: September 24-28, 1984

Site: Fachhochschule Freenius
Wiesbaden, F.R.G.

The conference site was an institute (special school) with government ties that provide research and analytical services to government and private industry on a contract basis. The conference was very well organized. The official language was English and most papers were easily followed. However, there was difficulty with a few. I estimate that 80% of the papers were questioned by someone in the audience who had experienced slightly or greatly different results from similar experiments. In some cases, no fact whatsoever was used. A possible explanation for this is that there are no set standards for pyrolysis, so conditions will vary from lab to lab. Sentiment favored establishing standard pyrolytic conditions although they would by necessity be somewhat complex.

The great majority of the papers involved mass spectroscopy. Most of the presenters were practicing mass spectroscopists with reasonably good interpretive skills. Major emphasis of the conference was on instrumental and methodogical development, chemistry and mechanism of thermal degradation reactions, and exploration and characterization of fossil fuels and biomass. Less attention was given to several other fields including food chemistry and tobacco. I will discuss in the following paragraphs the papers and excerpts I feel are pertinent to our interests.

The tone of the meeting was not anti-smoking. One of the organizers and several speakers publicly expressed their love of a good cigar. There were two representatives from other tobacco companies in attendance. Names and affiliations can be gleaned from the attached list of participants. I had relaxed, cordial conversations with people from BAT and REENTSMA. I also had an enjoyable encounter with our own Oskar Stuhl.

50297 3869