July 6, 1984

TO: Mr. J. T. Winebrenner

FROM: Mr. C. A. Martin

SUBJECT: CAMEL’S PERCEPTIONS CAMPAIGN

Fred Baker and I have discussed your concern regarding the female visual in the "You've got to be macho to smoke CAMEL” execution of the Perceptions Campaign. As mentioned, you feel that the female visual is not consistent with the current CAMEL campaign and want to specifically test this issue to see if it is a problem.

It is our belief that we should not evaluate the executions individually but rather in the context of the entire campaign. We will be able to accomplish this in the Strategic Advertising Test (SAT) which is currently underway. In this test, respondents in each of the three test cells will see either the current CAMEL Campaign, the Style Awareness Campaign, or the Perceptions Campaign. In addition to other questions, each respondent will be asked what he liked and disliked about the group of ads shown to him. Each group consists of only four ads, each respondent will have a thorough exposure to the ads on a forced basis. From this, we should be able to determine if there are any negative inconsistencies between the female visual and the current campaign.

We do not anticipate a problem in this area due to the responses observed at the focus groups held in Washington, D.C.. Overall, respondents perceived that CAMEL was communicating the idea of a new Filters and Lights product with improved taste delivery through the Perceptions Campaign. They also believed that the visuals conveyed the thought that CAMEL was an appropriate brand for a variety of people. The respondents further believed that CAMEL was emphasizing this idea of wide appeal through the female visual included in the execution. Some respondents noted that she was not smoking; however, this was changed in the final version used in the SAT.

Due to the nature of the Perceptions Campaign, we should expect some differences with the current CAMEL campaign. The Perceptions Campaign is intended to correct basic negative product and user images while the current CAMEL Campaign is more geared toward providing an overall image of adventure, independence, self-confidence, etc.



SLS 0415