THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH - U.S.A., INC.

SUPPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION 900 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, NY 10022
(212) 491-8585

JAMES F. GLENN, M.D.
CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER April 27, 1994

Robert E. Oswald, Ph.D.
Department of Pharmacology
Cornell University, College of Veterinary Medicine
Ithaca, New York 14853-6401 Re: Grant No. 3888

Dear Dr. Oswald:

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. (CTR), is pleased to offer you a new grant in the amount of $70,000 (including indirect costs) for the period from July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995 for the study proposed in your application "Molecular Mechanism of Nicotine Action on CNS Acetylcholine Receptors." It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional authorities. We recognize that this appropriation is somewhat less than you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your study at a productive level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit the enclosed revised budget sheet to show how the available funds will be distributed. A new budget sheet is enclosed for this purpose. Also, any applications to CTR indicate partial or complete overlap with applications to other agencies. If the latter result in awards, we should be notified promptly so that we can negotiate an appropriate adjustment of our award.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond June 30, 1995, even though we recognize that your original proposal proposed a study extending two years beyond that date. Therefore, if by November 30, 1994 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including a report of your progress, your request will receive consideration.

Your attention is called to the enclosed "Important Procedural Information for Grantees." Please fill in the attached “Notice of Research Project” and return it to me. Please contact Drs. Harmon McAlister and Arthur Eisenberg of our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant and keep us informed about the progress of your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances over $10,000 at the end of each grant year (see “Financial Requirements” for specific details). We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of expenditures and commitments. Please note our well-defined parameters are required from CTR, even if funds are awarded in a subsequent year. Moreover, our failure to receive timely annual financial statements from your grants at all will stop further administration. To approximately five minutes before 5:00 PM Eastern Time, Monday through Friday.

Sincerely,

[Signature]
Robert E. Oswald, Ph.D.
Director, Grants

ROE/bs

Enclosures: Budget Sheet
Notice of Research Project
Financial Requirements



