THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH-U.S.A., INC.

SUPPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION   900 THIRD AVENUE
                                               NEW YORK, NY 10022
                                               (212) 491-8865

JAMES F. GLENN, M.D.
CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

                                                        April 18, 1996

Gerald Siu, M.D., Ph.D.
Department of Microbiology
Columbia University
Health Sciences
701 W. 168th Street
New York, NY 10032

Dear Dr. Siu:                                  Re: Grant No. 3/68R2

The Council for Tobacco Research - U.S.A., Inc. (CTR), is pleased to offer you a renewal
grant in the amount of $90,000.00, including indirect costs, for the period from July 1, 1996
through June 30, 1997 for the proposed study: "A Study of Factors that Control T-Cell Specific
Gene Expression during Lymphocyte Development." It is understood that this grant is made
subject to acceptance by institutional authorities. We recognize that this appropriation is
somewhat less than you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your study at a productive
level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit the enclosed revised
budget sheet to show how the available funds will be distributed. Also, many applications to
CTR indicate partial or complete overlap with submissions to other agencies. If this later result
in awards, we should be notified promptly so that we can negotiate an appropriate adjustment of
our award.

This award will conclude the three years originally programmed for the project, it is
considered terminal for the project and a comprehensive final report is expected after completion
and reprints of any current or future papers resulting from research supported by the award must
be submitted.

Please review the enclosed "Important Procedural Information for grantees." Please fill in
the attached “Notice of Research Project” and return it to Ms. Contact Drs. George Hinsin or
Donald Ford of our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant and keep us informed about
the progress of your study.

The enclosed statement of “Financial Requirements” indicates that the Council recovers
unexpended annual balances over $1,000 and that year end deficits can be recovered from
CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Moreover, our appropriate forms timely
financial statements have her grants office will stop further payments. Appropriate forms will
be sent to your financial officer at the end of the grant year. Administrative problems are
relatively rare and we hope that this will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Sincerely,

[illegible signature]
Patrick N. Guerin, Jr.
Exec. Dir. / Treasurer

cc: J.T. Jenkins, M.D.
     Scientific Advisor