THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH—U.S.A., INC.

906 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022

ROBERT F. GEFFENBACH
PRESIDENT

October 7, 1986

Stanley Cohen, Ph.D.
Dept. of Biochemistry
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine
Nashville, TN 37232

Re: Grant No. 1991

Dear Dr. Cohen:

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. is pleased to offer you a new grant in the amount of $80,000.00 for the period from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987 for the study proposed in your application dated June 1, 1986. It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional authorities as heretofore. We recognize that this appropriation is somewhat less than you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your study at a productive level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit a revised budget to show how the available funds will be distributed. A new budget sheet is enclosed for this purpose.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond December 31, 1987, even though we recognize that your application proposes a study extending beyond that date. Therefore, if by May 31, 1987 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including a report of your progress to date, your request will receive consideration in competition for available funds.

Your attention is called to the enclosed "Important Procedural Information For Grantees." Please fill in the attached “Notice of Research Project” and return it to me. Drs. Harmon McAllister, Research Director, and David Stone, Associate Research Director, will serve as your primary contact with our scientific staff and assist concerning your grant. Please consult them as questions or problems arise, and keep us informed about the progress of your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances at the end of each grant year. We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of expenditures and commitments to assure that you agree with your institution’s official financial statement at the end of the grant year. Please note that year-end deficits cannot be recovered from CTR, even funds awarded in a subsequent year. Finally, please be aware that our grant policies require timely and full settlements of your grants office will stop further grant payment. Appropriate forms will be sent to your financial officer at the end of each fiscal year. Administrative problems are routinely handled by Renee Hill who is available to assist you with any questions concerning your grant.

Sincerely,

Robert F. Geffenbach
President

RFG:db

Enclosures: Notice of Research Project
Important Procedural Information For Grantees
Budget Sheet

cc: Renee Hill, Administrative Assistant
     Harmon McAllister, Ph.D., Research Director
     David Stone, Ph.D., Associate Research Director