THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH—U.S.A., INC.
900 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022

ROBERT F. GERSTENHACH
PRESIDENT

April 24, 1991

Henry Paulus, Ph.D.
Boston Biomedical Research Institute
Dept. of Metabolic Regulation
20 Stanford St.
Boston, MA 02114

Re: Grant No. 2723R1

Dear Dr. Paulus:

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. is pleased to award you a renewal grant
in the amount of $68,130.00 for the period from July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992 for the
study proposed in your application “Adaptation of Yeast to Osmotic Stress.” It is understood
that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional authorities. Also, many
applications to CTR indicate partial or complete overlap with applications to other agencies.
If the latter result in awards, we should be promptly notified so that we can negotiate an
appropriate adjustment of our award.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond June 30, 1992, even though
we recognize that your original application proposed a study extending one year beyond that
date. Therefore, if by November 30, 1991 you submit to us a formal renewal application,
including a report of your progress to date, your request will receive consideration.

Your attention is called to the enclosed “Important Procedural Information for
Grantees.” Please fill in the attached "Notice of Research Project" and return it to me. Drs.
Donald Ford, Associate Research Director, and Harmon McAllister, Scientific Director, will
serve as your primary contact with our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant.
Please consult the staff as questions or problems arise, and keep us informed about the
progress of your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpected balances at
the end of each grant year. We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of
expenditures and commitments to assure that you agree with your institution’s official
financial statement at the end of the grant year. Please note that yearly deficits cannot be
recovered from CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Finally, please
beware that failure to receive timely annual financial statements from your financial office
will stop further grant payments. These statements are relatively rare and we hope that it is
at the end of the grant year. Administrative approval forms will be sent you as soon as we hope that its
statement of our fiscal policies will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Cordially,

G.B. Batistini
Robert B. Batistini
Encls.
cc: Dr. John Gergerly



[Letterhead with address and phone number]