September 10, 1975

Mr. T. E. Sandefur

As requested, this will provide you with my comments on Harry Christopher’s observations relative to the Hawaii market.

1. We should plan using some local effort for MORE in this market. At present, the only 1976 effort in this area is via regaines - which tend to have a below average penetra-
tion - and 17 exposures via PARADE. If we can secure additional copy in this area they would certainly be candidates
and, so may want to consider giving the existing taut ex-
posure to MORE considering the “presence” being generated
for SALEM by the Aloha Stadium.

2. Spotboardows would seem to be a natural and should be considered for both SALEM and MORE. The nature of the market
younger, mobile, and oriented to out-of-doors - fits very
well with the characteristics of this medium.

3. The SALEM campaign would probably benefit by being tailored (casting) to this market similar to our black ethnic efforts
in the states.

4. I have a real question on the potential growth for SALEM in
this area. He may be in the same position in Hawaii versus
Kool that seems to be emerging in other ethnic markets, i.e.
SALEM has high awareness and trial levels among current Kool
consumers, but these people do strongly prefer Kool that I ques-
tion the effect which advertising pressure can have on alter-
ing our market position.

The early success for MORE may indicate that this is the brand
which is in a position to most strongly compete with current
Kool consumers.

5. There are several special events areas covered by Mr. Christopher
which would seem to hold promise. With the sizeable involve-
ment and the drawing power of the Aloha Stadium, we should
develop some type of consumer programs for SALEM.

Given the sports orientation of the market, we should also
press forward on tie-in promotions in the surfing area and
might even want to consider a high quality “MORE” surfboard
self-liquidator. The idea of a surfboard self-liquidator
is also worth pursuing. We should probably check on the
success of the Kool Spark promotion of two years ago.



50961
6669