INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

To: Dr. G. R. DiMarco May 9, 1984
From: M. Stowe

Subject: R&D and PT&D Projects on Specially Processed
Tobaccos

Drs. Bernasek, Dickerson, and I have discussed the type of
R&D work which we feel should be conducted as an extension of
the Mad Project. We recommend that work be undertaken in
R&D to 1) confirm the effect of this type of tobacco
processing on smoking characteristics and 2) determine
which processes/variations should develop. An outline of the
project work and staffing which we recommend for 1984 is
attached.

Since further evaluation of blends depends on the
availability of adequate quantities of the specially
processed tobaccos, an attempt was made in late April to
produce cast reconstituted sheet at TMCI. The sample
arrived in R&D on Monday. If the smoking characteristics of
this material are judged to be acceptable (or close enough to
lead us to believe acceptable material can be made at TMCI),
then the R&D program outlined on the attached document should
be feasible for 1984. If this is not the case, the timetable
will be lengthened considerably.

Recommended staffing for the R&D project is shown on the
project outline. The appropriate Managers have been
contacted to determine that temporary assignment of the staff
indicated to this project is possible if you approve this
commitment of R&D manpower. Because his time is heavily
committed to work on TGA, Dr. Casey is not included in the
project staffing. Dr. Dickerson has indicated that a
limited amount of his time would be available for
consultation, and I will ask Dr. Lloyd if such an
arrangement will still be possible.

A major objective for PT&D in 1984 should be to establish
facilities for the production of experimental quantities of
cast reconstituted sheet. This along with the planned
upgrading of the G7 Pilot Plant will put us in a position to
conduct process research on either or both of these types of
reconstituted sheet. Without such facilities, it will not
be possible to conduct research after quality on the
types of treatments needed. A memorandum in support of this
outline the work which PT&D will conduct is attached.

Please let me know when you would like to discuss this XC.

XC: Dr. E. Bernasek VB HB
Dr. J. P. Dickerson 43
Dr. U. F. Lloyd
Mr. R. A. Philipps
Dr. G. R. DiMarco