INTER-OFFICE MEMORANDUM

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102

RUR

January 22, 1980

Mr. D. P. Johnson
SUBJECT: Leaf Blends Development

Project No.: 8392
Project Title: Nicotine Reduction of Leaf Blends

There is an apparent concern within the Company for the relatively low level of the tar-nicotine ratio in the smoke produced by our products. Dr. Laurene discussed this briefly in a meeting with the Research, Development and Quality Control staffs on January 8, 1980. In discussing the major points of emphasis for the 1980 R&D program, he pointed out that we should approach a solution to this concern for relatively low tar-nicotine ratio levels in our products by considering the tobaccos used in the formulation of them.

Perhaps a brief review of the evolution in tobacco usage for the production of cigarettes would clarify our present position. At the time that five non-filtered products made up approximately ninety percent of the domestic cigarette sales, these products were formulated utilizing domestic flue-cured, burley, and Maryland strips to make up approximately seventy-seven percent of the tobacco blend; oriental tobacco made up approximately eight percent, and processed stems about five percent. The casing and flavoring technology was relatively basic and uncomplicated when compared to the technology that exists in the industry today. The technology in filters, filtration efficiencies, cigarette papers and dilution systems was essentially non-existent and tar-nicotine ratio levels had not been conceived. The domestic tobaccos were selected from farm grades produced in the lower one-half to two-thirds of the plant. The oriental leaf was selected from the “American Grades” produced in the upper part of the plant to achieve the rich-ness and fullness of odor and taste imparted to the smoke upon combustion.

The advent of the filtered cigarette and the increasing acceptance of these products by the consumer have resulted in enormous changes in the formulation of domestic cigarettes.



SO118 909