MEMORANDUM

April 11, 1980

TO: W. T. Hoyt CC: AY
WUG
FROM: Leonard S. Zahn RCH
SUBJECT: Two San Diego meetings:
I. Conference on Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology
March 3-4, 1980
II. Symposium on Alcohol and Cardiovascular Disease
March 4-5, 1980

The two sessions attracted a large turnout of scientists
and featured a number of reports based on data from several na-
tional studies on heart disease. While none of the findings were
really new in that they were previously unreported, some was really
significant. There was, however, some interesting material on
cholesterol and cancer incidence.

The highlights:

I. Conference on Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology

1. "Cigarette smoking and high density lipoprotein choles-
terol (HDL-C) prevalence" – Lipid Research Clinics (LRC) prevalence
study - Michael Criquí, Je Jolla, Cal. He reported on data from
the LRC study covering men and women aged 20-69 years from six
urban North American populations. The study group had two sequen-
tial examinations: at the first, plasma cholesterol and trigly-
cerides were measured; a 15% random sample of participants was
called for a second, more extensive examination that included a
detailed medical and family history. Criquí’s report was based on
an analysis done on 2663 men and 2553 women.

He reported confirmation of the finding that cigarette smok-
ing was associated with a decrease in HDL-C. For the first time,
however, the LRC data showed this association was independent of
such factors as age, hormone use by women, obesity, alcohol in-
take, and regular exercise, Criquí said.

He said the evidence supports a causal relationship because
the decrease in HDL-C appeared with smoking 20 or more cigarettes
daily was substantial (11%-4%). A dose-response daily had HDL-C
levels in that subjects smoking 19 or fewer cigarettes. The
number of exsmokers in this study and the studies revealed that
HDL-level intermediate between smokers and non-smokers.

He evoked questions about this conventional hypothesis and tri-
glyceride levels. He (notes?) planned to study emotion and trig-
lyceride lipid.  (He or rather) thought that diet deffects may be
easy enough to savor.

2. “Effect of sodium on blood pressure” - Robert W. Eckel, Den-
ver, Col.



