4.

is recent evidence that smoking is involved in the development of pneumoconiosis, he said.

Kotin’s theme was a simple one: remove the risk, not the worker.

At one point: Most employees feel they enter the workplace in optimum physical condition, free of disease or any character-
istic associated with increased susceptibility to disease. This is so in the great majority of cases... “Lung cancer in the uranium miner and the asbestos worker and coke oven (worker) are obvious examples where the workplace is clearly an element in the increased risk but certainly not the exclusive one and clearly one in which the engineering and technological work practice control requires that the increased risk dimension, cigarette smoking, be addressed as well.”

5. During a panel discussion on “Role of the Knowledge of High Risk Groups in Occupational Health Policies and Practices” moderator Michael Wright of the United Steel Workers of America said he opposed the kind of smoking ban Kotin reported was in effect at Johns-Manville. He said an educational campaign was preferable. Referring to various comments by others in regard to genetic screening, he wondered what extent industry will used such devices in order to avoid cleaning up the work environ-
ment.

D. Jack Killian of Dow Chemical Co. said his company has sup-
ported Allied research at the University of Texas. However, in view of the failure of anti-smoking and anti-alcohol campaigns, even if acceptable tests are ever developed to detect susceptible persons, there probably will be little or no effect on mortality or morbidity.

Nicholas Ashford of MIT disagreed with some of Kotin’s re-
marks on risk susceptibility. A past history of occupational and environmental exposure was important in relation to sus-
ceptibility, he said. He stated that management can reduce the cost of workmen's compensation by removing hazards, high risk individuals and potential claimants (don’t hire those with ident-
ifiable disease or precursors of disease).

Kotin, also a panelist, said he’d “hard up to find any abnormality related to smoking above the diaphragm or below the urogenic fold” in which smoking was not the major determinant.

Smoking is a hypersexually job factor, he said, and his company executives feel that it is one of the things that will stop the-more-or-less full employment when they’re willing to accept all sorts of people for work. He expressed a belief that a paid possibility that may be some sort of screening, accepts

[illegible]

“I don’t think we can afford to ignore the fact that there are 
people who are susceptible.”