Confidential

RJT Interoffice Memorandum

Re: Contaminated Shipment Date: November 4, 1986

To: Mr. Hal E. Guess From: J. T. Dobbins, Jr.

The attached Transmittal Form for Product Contaminated in Transit applies to Claims 3062 and 3063. The incident involved escape of Cleanite Ant and Roach Spray in such a manner as to cause perceptible wetting of two cases of cigarettes within the truck cargo being carried by AAA Cooper. Upon discovery of the wetted cases, they were wrapped in plastic film and returned to Winston-Salem. The remaining 89 cases of the shipment arrived several days later and were stored on three pallets, again apart from the two wetted cases.

Mr. Steve Kelly of QA inspected the returned goods and reported that not only was there no obvious contamination of the 89 cases, it was even questionable, in his opinion, whether the two cases alleged to have suffered primary contamination were displaying any visual or odorous evidence of such contamination. Two cartons were sampled from each of the two primarily contaminated cases and one carton from the top and one carton from the bottom of each of the three pallets containing the remaining product. These ten cartons were received for analysis as representative of the shipment.

Your copy of a memorandum from Dr. Deskin dated October 14, 1986, along with the MSDS specifies the chemical composition of the Pyrocide 7045 from which the commercial product is formulated. A can of product said to be identical with the material allegedly causing the contamination was provided by the manufacturer for our use as a standard. The ingredients specified on the label were as follows:

Pyrethrins 0.05%
Piperonyl butoxide, tech. 0.100
N-octyl bicycloheptene dicarboximide 0.166
2-(methylethoxy)phenol methylcarbamate 0.500
Petroleum distillate 91.734
Inert 7.450

Key points which we must remember in making proper evaluations of this incident are 1) that the product is sold to be dispensed by aerosol, thus exposing the user to voluminous clouds of material which will of necessity be inhaled during normal application of the product, and 2) that the active ingredients are meant to be in a non-visible residue.



5044 9/15