TO: W. K. Neher
     Brand Planning Managers

FROM: J. J. Dean

DATE: August 2, 1985

SUBJECT: OPERATIONS WEEKLY STATUS REPORT

CORPORATE

• Multi-Brand Volume

   Second Quarter Intercept Coupon Program is complete in 64 markets and 12 are in execution. A total of 76 markets are being executed April 22 through August 4 distributing 5,364 coupons. A total of 4,987 coupons have been distributed second quarter through the week ending July 28. Forty-one market evaluations have been made by Promotion Operations.

   Third quarter intercept coupon markets have been assigned and contracts are routing for approval. A total of 41 markets are scheduled for execution August 5 through September 29 with planned distribution of 3,696 coupons. Shipping orders for coupons and support materials are complete.

   Fourth Quarter Coupon Intercept - Paper and press time have been reserved for approximately 2.5M intercept folders for distribution beginning October 28. Both paper and press time are tight during September due to pre-Christmas catalog and promotion printing.

Package Outlet Development Test – Initial execution and MDD budgets approved by H. L. Oriolsky. Series of meetings held with Sales Planning and MDD to review all elements to date. Area Directors will be presented program details on 8/5. Chain contact to develop exact store list and quantities of materials needed to begin after Sales Directors presentation.

Continuity Program Development – J. J. Dean and R. Crawford held follow-up meeting with Bill Korsch, Beaumont-Bennett to discuss program development. Korsch presented program concept and budgets. These will be discussed with G. T. Barody and T. B. Owen week of 8/5.

Elson’s Gift Shops – AR and Contract has been developed and forwarded to Management for approval.

Direct Marketing Continuity Response Test – Brownline proofs for all sixteen coupon booklet variations were furnished to Paul Knouse for review with the distributor. The initial letters and envelopes are off press and scheduled for delivery to Nielsen by August 9. Coupon booklets are scheduled on press August 6 and 7.