INTER-OFFICE MEMORANDUM

March 7, 1986

TO: Dan R. Pugh
FROM: C. D. Mays, B. F. Niven

SUBJECT: R.A.N. Project Extraction Programs

Dr. M. V. Rice and A. J. Sangobhashi have recently conducted a series of experiments which resulted in cigarette smoke condensate displaying markedly reduced biological activity. These experiments involved the application of aqueous burley extract to flue-cured tobacco and preparation of cigarettes from the resultant treated flue-cured tobacco. Biological activity was determined through use of Ames tests.

Investigation and development of this concept and a likely process for making less biologically active yet flavorful smoking products will include additional experiments using various solvents and extraction practices. Joint meetings with Dr. Rice cleared the way for us to begin extraction of lots of sizable samples. We are to extract, or to have extracted by contracted means, at least three grades of burley tobaccos (must include K10) and use the extract to enhance three grades of flue-cured tobaccos. Smoke condensate from resulting test cigarettes (burley extract enhanced flue-cured) will be given to Dr. Rice for biological assay.

We also understand that perhaps some or all the test cigarettes should use expanded tobacco. We have just written a preliminary disclosure of a process invention covering the means for extract enhancement and limiting value increase of tobacco/tobacco flavored material. In all likelihood, development and commercialization of this new process will require and justify design and construction of a bench scale pilot plant to be located either here or at Avoca.

We expect to begin extracting samples using conventional practices here this month and we are hopeful that the patent disclosure memorandum will clear the way for us to engage Muller Extract Company, GMBH for supercritical extraction/expansion studies. These studies will both provide test material for the RAN investigations and design knowledge to be needed for the likely pilot plant program.

B. F. Niven
Chulion D. Mays

cc: X. A. Merricks
R. K. Teague
W. L. McKenzie
B. T. Kissinger



56049-0037