CONFIDENTIAL

xc: Brand R&D Mgrs.  R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102
(919) 727-4836

RJR

December 14, 1983

Subject: Weekly Highlights
R&D Technical Services

To: Dr. G. R. Di Marco

ITEMS FOR WEEKLY BRIEF

• FTC Market Sample - Pickup of the next market sample for ‘tar’ and nicotine
testing is nearing completion. Only three of the fifty cities remain. The
report on the previous market sample has been in the hands of the Commis-
sion for approximately two months now with no apparent reason for the delay
in release.

• Disk Refined Stems - The last of the construction work on the Pilot facility
is under way. Disk refined stems can be distinguished from cut filler
by image analysis. It should be possible to qualify stem content by this
technique.

GENERAL ITEMS

• Nitrate in Tobacco - A modification of our standard NO2/NO method for
waste water is being evaluated for determination of nitrate content of
tobacco. Preliminary data show slightly lower values than with our current
method and the erratic behavior of certain types of samples displayed with
the specific ion method has not been observed. Precision and reproducibility
is quite good and additional work is in progress to invest-
igate the accuracy of the method for tobacco analyses.

• Protos Modification - Design problems were discovered sometime ago in the
suction chamber of the Protos Cigarette Maker. This caused problems in
making uniform, firm tobacco rods at highspeeds. Hauni has been making
modifications to Protos manufacturing machine over the past several months. The
R&D Plant’s Manufacturing was modified last week and is now back in operation.

• STP Test Products - An investigation is underway to determine equipment
cost and manpower needs for the R&D Plant to more fully support SIP's wet
snuff, smoking and chewing tobacco test products. This should be complete
by the end of December.

• Nitrate Measurement of Menthol in Cut Filler - A newly-constructed menthol cal-
ibration for 112 samples of PF Blend showed a standard of 0.015 over
a limited range (0.5-0.9% menthol). Standard error of prediction for this



005.076