November 9, 1987

RJR
SECRET
ADDRESSEE ONLY
No. 421 By seelee

TO: Mr. G. R. Gunzenhauser
FROM: R. J. Reagan

SUBJ: SSI Supply Contract and RJRT Guarantee Expansion

An authorization is currently routing to expand SSI Carbon Technology’s fuel source production capacity. To meet our requirements, they need financing assistance from RJRT. It is proposed that an existing loan guarantee be expanded to provide this assistance.

BACKGROUND

SSI Carbon Technologies is currently the sole supplier of the extruded carbon fuel source used in Project SPA. They are a small entrepreneurial company with expertise in the extrusion of materials, currently supplying high technology components to IBM, General Motors, Ford, GTE, etc. Due to their relatively small size (1987 projected sales of $21 million and assets of $16 million), they have limited access to capital.

A fuel source supply contract was signed in late 1985. It was necessary to implement an agreement and start plant construction in order to provide sufficient lead time to meet project schedules. This agreement was based on an early fuel source design (the “J” design). During the past two years the design has evolved to the “R-13” design to provide significant product benefits (lower the carbon monoxide level). The “R-13” is a custom component rather than a commodity type item. The “R-13” requires additional processing steps, requiring approximately twice the level of capital to manufacture this component.

SSI is the sole supplier and we must use them for the intermediate term (1-2 years). Additional development efforts are continuing with other suppliers, however, we currently anticipate using SSI for the first 2.3 billion pieces/month. This capacity would be implemented in phases:

* Current plant (at Creedmore, NC) capacity of 100 million pieces/month.
* Current proposal – expand current capacity to 700 million pieces/month ($17.6 million of total capital required).
* Next proposal – in 1st quarter of 1988, authorize an expansion to 1.3 billion pieces/month at Creedmore facility (approximately $6 million additional as a possible second facility (1 billion pieces/month level).

Rationale/Alternatives

SSI must receive financing assistance to meet our fuel source needs. SSI must purchase and install equipment to manufacture the “R-13” fuel source to provide SSI with sufficient lead time to expand its necessary resources to modify their existing production and quality functions.



50616 4579