May 24, 1983

TO: G. Noyak GTB Thanks
See my notes yh

SUBJECT: WINSTON Drag Racing - Opportunities

Recently, I had an opportunity to view a drag racing event in Rockingham. The concentration and impact of our overall identification and the young adult male orientation of this growing sport are factors which make this a unique activity.

As we move toward our planning for next year, the following observations should be noted:

1. Improvements are needed in two key areas relating to sampling and promotional products: (a) The unique, open accessibility and spectator traffic flow make sampling more difficult. (b) The strong orientation of this group to t-shirts on the active merchandising by the various racing sponsor/concessionaires places our Promotional Products Group approach at a competitive disadvantage.

Recommendation/Action Program

Discussions with R. Powell and C. Byrd have generated a variety of ideas for testing to address current needs. The focal point of the test effort would be a tent and activity area which would serve as a sampling distribution point, a display area establishing brand sponsorship to smokers, and an opportunity for broader, more aggressive merchandising of our promotional products group items. In effect, a grouping of current low level activities into a more concentrated area, positioned to maximize traffic flow, would heighten our brand presence at the event. (This is not unlike the VANTAGE PGA tent which is designed for a similar sampling objective.)

Proposed testing of this activity area, accompanied by other proven volume oriented and consumer involvement activities, will help provide a much needed promotional focus to drag racing. It is proposed that test of this program would be scheduled for Labor Day weekend at Indianapolis. Funding would be provided by Promotion/Promotional Products Group test dollars with ultimate funding for this effort from Sampling and Promotional Products Group budgets.

April
Be sure
we include
it in all
directives



5069 218