R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM SENSORY EVALUATION DIVISION

SUBJECT: Summary of Human Study
Extended Use Results DATE: October 9, 1987
No. 206-47/H

TO: Tom Reynolds FROM: Margaret W. Savoca

Summary

The initial mean value for acceptance using a 9-point hedonic scale was 5.67 (like slightly). By the end of two weeks this mean score had dropped to 5.16 (neither like nor dislike). The attribute ratings identified problems with strength, odor and performance that could be correlated to decline in acceptance. Some subjects did comment on their impression that they felt better during the period they were smoking the product.

Background

There were three groups of Human Study subjects who completed periodic evaluations of their perceptions of the product during the periods when they were smoking the test product. 16 attributes related to performance, usage, flavor, strength, and odor (ballot is attached). The subjects also provided written comments. The 31 subjects who evaluated the test product for two weeks completed three evaluations (Groups S1 and S2). The twelve subjects who evaluated the product for 39 days completed five evaluations (S3 Group). The data were analyzed for all subjects of Groups S1, S2 and S3 for three intervals. The subjects in Group S3 who provided five evaluations were also analyzed separately. The results of the first two intervals have been reported previously.

Results of Three Intervals for All Subjects

Test conditions varied for the three groups of subjects. The S1 and S2 Groups were both on the diet but smoked the product during different two week periods. Males and females were represented in both groups. The S3 Group was not on the diet and smoked the product for 39 days. The S3 Group has comprised of males only. The results were analyzed for group and interval effects. Group effects were not a major source of information.

Three interval results indicate that 12 of the 16 attributes and Overall Acceptance were significantly different across time. Two ways changes exhibited by these attributes would represent change in first, as a movement in the score than would represent.

3086 5957