RECEIVED

JAN 2 8 1988 -
G.R. DI MARCO

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM TO: J. T. Winebrenner

SUBJECT: The Archer Company - Weekly Activity Report for Week of January 25, 1988

1. Genesis Packaging - TAC’s peelable retortable lidding structure is the material of choice at Genesis, who requested 3MM square inches for further machine evaluations. Genesis has sold two machines for applying our flexible membranes to their plastic barrier containers and retorting products to replace metal cans. One machine is at National Food Laboratories; the other machine's location is confidential. Genesis and TAC management will meet during the second quarter to coordinate efforts geared for production quantities early 1989.

2. Polaroid - A management/technical team from Polaroid is visiting TAC 1/26-2/88 to review the technical issues on modifying their structure for one mill pod to enable TAC to receive a 50% permanent increase in business. One mill pod is presently produced on a unique multi-fausted laminator that is already at capacity and Polaroid desires to have the new structure approved by 10/1/88. Both companies are working to make the opportunity happen.

3. Campbell (Plastigon Program - Retortable Soups) - TAC’s lidding material (utilizing a proprietary sealant film produced on the oriented film line at the pilot plant) has just passed U.S.P.A. protocol testing. Material to be tested at their Maxton, NC plant this week. The Plastigon program will leapfrog Campbell into new technology and markets.

4. Miles Laboratories - After three price negotiation sessions, we have still not resolved our 1/1/88 price. Our cost increases justified a price increase proposal of 7.75%. Miles countered with an offer of 2.0%. We have countered with a $5.5M price increase for $4MM of business and a 5.0% increase for $Business. We expect to settle on the latter and finalize this agreement by 1/29/88.

5. Converter Foil Piling - Alcoa has announced a price increase of 6% to be effective on all new orders and on existing orders shipped after 4/18/88. We will support this announce and advise our customers that our prices have increased by 6% effective on and after 4/18/88. This action will also precipitate a general market wide increase in foil-based converter products and TAC’s pricing structure.

6. Owens Illinois -  We held a kickoff meeting with O.I. 1/27/88 to discuss the feasibility of utilizing TAC's lidding stock on their new, high-speed canning line. The initial reaction was positive, but we will need to provide them with additional data and samples before they can make a decision.

7.  TAC Personnel - Bob Hendershot is recovering well from his recent surgery and expects to be back in the office 1/28/88.

JTW:db