THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH - U.S.A., INC.

REPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION                                       900 THIRD AVENUE
                                                                           NEW YORK, NY 10022
                                                                           (212) 491-8665

JAMES F. GLENNY, M.D.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER



October 1, 1996

Dennis J. Templeton, M.D., Ph.D.
Department of Pathology and Oncology
Case Western Reserve University
10900 Euclid Avenue
Biomedical Research Bldg., 9th Floor
Cleveland, OH 44106-4943                                    Re: Grant No. 4264R1

Dear Dr. Templeton:

The Council for Tobacco Research - U.S.A., Inc. (CTR), is pleased to award you a renewal
grant in the amount of $80,000, including indirect costs, for the period from January 1, 1997
through December 31, 1997 for the proposed study: "Regulation of Cell Stress Signaling by a
New Antioxidant Protein." It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by
institutional authorities. Also, many applications to CTR indicate partial or complete overlap
with submissions to other agencies. If the latter result in awards, we should be notified
promptly so that we can negotiate an appropriate adjustment of our award.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond December 31, 1997, even though
we recognize that your original application proposed a study extending one year beyond that
date. Therefore, by May 31, 1997, you submit to us a formal non-competing renewal
application, including a report of your progress, your request will receive consideration.

Please review the enclosed "Important Procedural Information for Grantees." Please fill in
the attached “Notice of Research Project” and return it to me. Contact Drs. Harmon McAlister
or George Hashim of our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant and keep us informed
about the progress of your study.

The enclosed statement of "Financial Requirements" indicates that the Council recovers
unexpended annual balances over $1,000 and that year's indirect cannot be recovered from
CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Moreover, our failure to receive timely
financial statements from your grant office will stop further payments. Appropriate forms will
be sent to your financial officer at the end of the grant year. Administrative problems are
relatively rare and we hope that this will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Sincerely,



James F. Glenny, M.D.

JFG:js

Enclosures: Important Procedural Information for Grantees
Notice of Research Project
Financial Requirements

cc: Ms. Anne Dick
     Mr. David Kirk
     Mrs. Mary Ann Killea
     Mr. Michael Malone
     Mr. Robert Melnick



THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH - U.S.A., INC.