THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH—U.S.A., INC.

800 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022

ROBERT F. OERSTENBACH
PRESIDENT

October 17, 1991

Cho-Yaung Yeung, Ph.D.
University of Illinois College of Medicine
Dept. of Genetics (M/C 669)
Room 881 – 808 South St.
Chicago, IL 60612

Re: Grant No. 3248

Dear Dr. Yeung:

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, is pleased to offer you a new grant in the amount of $75,000.00 for the period from January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992 for the study proposed in your application “Trans-regulation by Family Members of a Serum Inducible Gene.” It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional authorities. We recognize that this appropriation is somewhat less than you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your study at a productive level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit a revised budget to show how the available funds will be distributed. A new budget sheet is enclosed for your use. Also, many applications to CTR indicate partial or complete overlap with applications to other agencies. If the latter result in awards, we should be promptly notified so that we can negotiate an appropriate adjustment of our award.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond December 31, 1992, even though we recognize that your application proposes a study extending two years beyond that date. Therefore, if by May 31, 1992 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including a report of your progress to date, your request will receive consideration.

Your attention is called to the enclosed “Important Procedural Information for Grantees.” Please fill in the attached "Notice of Research Project" and return it to me. Drs. Harmon McAlister, Scientific Director, and David Stone, Associate Research Director, will serve as your primary contact with our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant progress. Please consult the staff as questions or problems arise, and keep us informed about the plan of your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances at the end of each grant year. We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of expenditures and commitments to assure that you agree with our institution’s official financial statement at the conclusion of the grant year as presented by your department representative, Glenn Caven, CCR. If you have any questions concerning this, please contact Glenn directly.  We anticipate that normal CTR administrative matters will be handled through Glenn Caven. We request that all routine bill submissions are sent direct to our office for processing.

Sincerely,

[Signature]
Robert F. Oerstenbach
President

RF0:djs
encl. Budget Sheet
Important Procedural Information for Grantees
Notice of Research Project