Department of Medicine
monary and Critical Care Division
(619) 543-5970

U C S D
MEDICAL CENTER
University of California, San Diego.

DOCKETS INFORMATION OFFICE
225 Dickinson Street
88 00 CF-108, La Jolla, CA 92093-990

January 25, 1988

Frank E. Young, M.D., Ph.D.
Commissioner of Food and Drugs
Food and Drug Administration
Department of Health and Human Services
Rockville, Maryland 20857

Dear Dr. Young:

I am writing to request that the FDA examine the new smokeless cigarette proposed for marketing by R.J. Reynolds and that you declare this product is a nicotine delivery device. As the senior scientific editor for the last several Surgeon General’s Reports on smoking and health, it is clear to me that this product is designed simply to deliver nicotine and the inclusion of tobacco in the product is a blatant attempt to circumvent the responsibility of the manufacturer to establish that this product is reasonably safe prior to its introduction into the market place. The tobacco contained within the cigarette is not used to generate the nicotine delivered to the individual using this drug delivery system from review of data provided, it appears the unfortunate precedent that including tobacco in a product provides an automatic exemption from FDA review.

To allow the introduction of a new product for which there is no existing market, and for which there is every reason to expect that there would be a significant health risk in its use, would be highly irresponsible. To allow the marketing of such a product without legitimate and reasonable government review and control would be a tragedy, and would make a mockery of the protective role that the FDA has played in our society.

It may be argued that this device is less hazardous than active cigarette smoking. The only appropriate response to that argument is to allow the use of this device as part of an organized nicotine cessation program under physician supervision. To allow this manufacturer, who has yet to acknowledge any health risks exists for active smoking, to market a second product cannot simply because it is less hazardous than their first may produce errors and should not be consistent with the FDA mandate.

                                                                      E
                                                                 8901-5
                                                                  13:05



