TO: Stephen Sears

FROM: Evon Crooks

SUBJECT: Employee Input for Performance Review

DATE: April 26,1989

Major ACCOMPLISHMENTS THIS YEAR

1. Completed measurements of intrapuff yield for nicotine and glycerine in WINSTON and marlboro. The following R & DH's were completed:
(a) Measurements of Nicotine Intra puff Delivery.
(b) Intra puff Delivery Measurement of Nicotine and Glycerine from PREMIER.
(c) Intra puff Comparison of Nicotine and Glycerine in WINSTON vs Marlboro.

2. Completed manuscript on "The Measurement of Nicotine Intra puff Delivery" for publication in Beltrage; internal approval was also obtained.

3. Prepared invention disclosure on the Intra puff Smoking Apparatus. A patent application is currently being prepared.

4. A patent approval was granted on an Aerosol Delivery Article.

5. Constructed apparatus for measuring cigarette paper permeability as a function of temperature and additives, and is currently developing methodology for such measurements.

6. Obtain and modify a paper coating machine for coating cigarette papers with various polymers. This machine is currently an integral part of the low sidestream projects.

7. Reconstructed and improved the mass burn rate system.

8. Provided support and recommendations to various projects in R&D.

9. Provided support to the VRP project (ash team, paper evaluation etc.)

10. Serve on the planning committee for the 1989 ACS Regional meeting to be held in Winston on October 8 - 11.

(these are just a few of my accomplishments from 6/88 to 4/89)

STRENGTHS

1. The ability to effectively accomplish projects that were considered to be extremely difficult.

2. Can communicate effectively with other groups in R&D.

3. My strong instrumentation background is a source for our group and others in R&D.

4. Applies a logical thinking process to problem solving.

WEEKNESSES

1. Computer skills

CAREER DEVELOPMENT NEEDS

1. Continue to expand computer skills.

2. Continue to improve presentation skills.



50801 3662