ROSSOMANDO & ASSOCIATES

MEMORANDUM

FOR: Peggy Carter, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.

FROM: Chris Rossomando

SUBJECT: Fire Safety Project Update

DATE: May 11, 1992

As you know, Paul Warner and I will be in Maine for focus groups later this week, and things went very well recently in Tucson. When I return I’ll give you a complete update on the research, but in the meantime, I've attached an updated progress chart.

Just a few notes here:

Tucson

We learned a lot in Tucson. The community is fascinating, with its mix of black, white, Hispanic and Indian cultures. There is a "fire" culture there I’ve not seen before. Setting little fires is very common and seems to be considered a rite of passage; a “boys will be boys” kind of thing. My preliminary thought is that our challenge will be to craft messages that challenge the de facto acceptance of this type of arson by showing people that this behavior has serious consequences and should not be accepted. I also think a smoke detector component is appropriate.

We also tested materials developed last year and gained valuable insights. In particular, we may have to change the art for the brochure on children playing with fire. Both groups of citizens from the target area were concerned that putting the matches next to the toys in the illustration made it look like a toy... Interestingly, when we showed the brochure to the “community leaders” group, which included a number of educators, no one picked up on this. They reacted to the words, not the picture. It was only after Paul reported what the citizens group said that the educators agreed… it was a dramatic example of the need to conduct market research with members of the target audience and not just leaders.

Peoria

The project is going extremely well in Peoria, where about 200 smoke detector requests have been received from the target area. Chief Russell reported that there will in time be an improvement group that will start as soon as the first of the year. The prototype cigarette lighter detector was built on the floor with a battery shell, plastic and textile packaging materials. This was not a detector distributed under the program; it was installed and tested by a member of the research team.

Attachments: Progress Chart

cc: Paul Warner, Jim Williams