File wrd



RJR Interoffice Memorandum

SUBJECT: R&D Perspective on
FAT Blind Product Test DATE: November 19, 1987

TO: W. M. Hildebolt FROM: M. F. Dube

The results of a blind product test of fresh aftertaste (FAT) products were included on 11/5/87. The management summary provided by MDD is reported as an attachment. The products utilized the recently developed controlled release pellet technology with a low level of menthol. These products had measured smoke menthol deliveries of less than 6.5 ug/puff, compared to approx. 30 ug/puff for Salem Lite and approx. 13 ug/puff for Newport. Three 70 menthol level products were tested, in which pellets containing 3%, 5% and 8% menthol by weight were inserted in the filter. No menthol was added via conventional means (i.e., top dressing, filter flavor). Products were tested among 18 - 49 year old non-menthol Full Flavor and Full Flavor Tar Smokers, male and female.

In the FF category, all three products were rated inferior on 8+0H acceptance. All three products increased menthol, minty and artificial taste attributes. As we’ve seen repeatedly in qualitative work, FF non-menthol smokers will not accept a product if they can detect menthol. Further corroboration is provided by an earlier 1987 Concept/Product Test in which non-menthol smokers were given a concept, stating that “a hint of menthol” was used in the products. These products were overwhelmingly rejected.

In the FFIT category, the 5% menthol product was rated parity among total category and superior among 18 - 24 year old smokers and among smokers with a high fresh aftertaste ideal. The 3% and 7% menthol products were rated inferior to the Control among FFIL products with the 3% level apparently too low and the 7% level too high. The 5% product, tobacco taste, strength and harshness attributes were maintained while fresh aftertaste and cooling aftertaste were increased. Increases in mildness, menthol, minty and artificial taste were also noticed; however, this category did not view these attributes negatively as evidenced by the positive acceptance scores.

These test results are highly encouraging in view of the fact that FAT suspected target areas category for a new product with fresh aftertaste is FFIT, young adult female smokers. Additionally, the 5% menthol pellet product would appear to engage accordingly that its performance was comparable to existing brands. However, it did have insufficient palatable character which should enhance acceptance if the menthol improvement is coupled with other attribute refinements.



5859 19