RJR Interoffice Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

Subject: New Marlboro 25’s Date: July 11, 1984
Re: Mr. G. H. Long's Memorandum 7/2/84 From: D. L. Potter

To: Mr. B. V. Hardin

The technical analysis of the new Marlboro 25’s product and packaging is complete with the exception of a thorough blend analysis of Marlboro Light 25’s, which will be completed on July 13,
1984. Attached are the results of our analysis with this one
exception.

We provide here a summary of the attached results for your review:

The blend analysis on Marlboro King Size 5½’s showed no significant difference compared to Marlboro 20’s product analyzed earlier this year. No difference was found in the tow item, cigarette circumference or percent air dilution. The difference in tip draft and cigarette draft is due to the high variation noted in the samples tested and is not thought to be an intentional change.

The physical and analytical data collected for the Marlboro Light 20’s and 25’s products indicates there is no difference between these two products. This cannot be confirmed until the blend analysis is complete on July 13.

The major differences between the Marlboro 20’s and 25’s products are in the packaging. Besides the obvious differences caused by placing 25 cigarettes in a pack and eight packs in a carton, raw material differences were noted. The Marlboro 25’s utilize a 45 lb. base paper for their foil inner versus the 28 lb. liner found in the 20’s pack, a 55 lb. CIS litho label in place of 35 lb. and .014 inch carton stock in place of .012 inch. Although these upgraded packaging materials may offer some additional packaging stability with rounder less sharp edges on the pack, they may also cause an upcharge in the total packaging cost. This upcharge includes the estimated savings resulting from reduced material requirement. Preliminary package cost analysis indicates a minimum 5% upcharge before purchased volume considerations are taken into account which would significantly impact on the cost of printed items.

The follow-up report will be issued as soon as the Marlboro Light blend analyses are completed.

38160 4356