file

Febru. 16, '95
4:26 ^s

FAX

MEMORANDUM TO JIM JOHNSTON
R. OLSEN
ROGER MOZINGO
TIM HYDE

From: Tom Griscom 3

Subject: Tobacco Institute Management Committee

Date: April 19, 1995

This is a review of actions taken at the April management committee meeting.

1) Approval was given to additional submissions to OSHA as part of the post review process. There will be additional discussions with Mary Ward to coordinate all submissions and to take into account work being done by the individual companies. This will require an assessment to each member company and RJR share should be approximately $150,000.

2) An update was provided on key state actions. There was discussion on the status of Florida legislation and Roger Mozingo will provide a separate piece to you on this item. In addition, there was a review of prevention actions in New York and Ohio. No additional action required at this time in either state.

3) On the Youth Access proposal with retailers, it was agreed that a plan should be put in place with the retail community which would incorporate voluntary measures. The tentative time frame for roll-out of such a program would be either 4th quarter 1995 or first quarter 1996. This decision will keep the retailers focused on the program and provide a more definite time for completion of the voluntary parts of a Youth Access initiative. Nothing will go forward or be announced pending other legislative opportunities.

4) A decision was made to implement a California public relations effort under the direction of Brennan Dawson. This will begin with focus groups in California to identify messages and extend to having an identified person in California to provide quick media reaction and response. No additional funds required for this activity.

5) It was recommended that the scientific work which has not been done on fire safe cigarettes should continue; that while there may not be an active legislative proposal at this time, the task force work should proceed.

5106 1195