Bob Hughes James Kelley
FII
NOTED MAR 7 1988

RJR Interoffice Memorandum

Report 721V
Subject: Use of Weldwood
Contact Cement Date: February 29, 1988

To: Mr. Richard J. Hall From: Dr. Rob Harrington

Below is an evaluation of Weldwood Contact Cement manufactured by DAP, Inc. (Dayton, OH). Scientific Affairs approves the use of this product to secure gaskets to apron dryer doors. Product contact with this adhesive should be kept to a minimum. This adhesive contains solvents that may cause dizziness, headache and other health effects. Proper ventilation and the use of rubber gloves are recommended when applying this adhesive.

This adhesive is composed of neoprene rubber in a 1,1,1 trichloroethane/ dichloromethane base.

Chloroprene rubber (neoprene or latex) is a polymer made from chloroprene monomers. It is commonly used to waterproof rubber materials such as gloves, costings, belts, tires, etc. Chloroprene (2-chloro-1,3-butadiene) is a colorless flammable liquid with a high vapor pressure. In chronic studies with mice and rats, chloroprene monomer was determined not to be carcinogenic. It is not considered to be a teratogen. Chloroprene is a respiratory tract irritant. At very high levels it can cause respiratory depression and asphyxia. At levels above 300 ppm chloroprene can produce toxic effects. The American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) has set a threshold value (TLV) of 10 ppm for exposure in the workplace. Polychloroprene rubber is essentially non-toxic, has an average molecular weight of 100,000. These polymers often contain sulfur. Pyrolysis products of the monomer or polymer include hydrogen chloride (HCl), sulfur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide (CO) and small amounts of chloroprene, benzene, acetic acid, formic acid, formaldehyde and various mercaptans.

1,1,1-Trichloroethane (methyl chloroform) is a clear nonflammable liquid with a very high vapor pressure. It has a low oral toxicity with an LD50 in the rat higher than 3000 mg/kg. It is also toxic if approximately 8 g/kg (liquid) is applied to the absorbed through the skin.  (Toxicological Exposure Index, 1986). It may be absorbed through the skin. Contact with methyl chloro-form results in defats the skin and may cause redness and scaling. Inhalation exposure of 50-100 ppm can cause CNS depression but not severe adverse effects. Repeated exposure will produce irritation and cause anesthesia in a worker who has, as an average, 2 g/kg body weight has caused a car-cinogenic effect (1986).

In case of fire, use dry chemical, carbon dioxide or foam extinguishers. Use water spray to cool fire exposed containers.

This information is based on data available February 29, 1988.

Rob Harrington, Ph.D.
Toxicologist



Doc # 695/36