FOR: ALL R&D EMPLOYEES

Please read carefully re: potential
impact.

PSC

RJ Reynolds
Tobacco Company

Interoffice Memo

August 19, 1994

TO: Department Heads

RE: Food & Drug Administration Investigation

As you know, the Federal Food & Drug Administration has been conducting an investigation of the tobacco industry on the questions of whether any tobacco company "spikes," "manipulates," or “controls” the amount or level of nicotine in their products for the purpose of creating and maintaining “addiction” and whether or not the industry intends that its products function as “drugs” within the meaning of the Act.

We have recently been advised that FDA investigators have contacted several former employees of Reynolds. We are not aware that any current employees have been contacted as yet. If and when a current or former employee of our Company is contacted, the first notice may well be a contact by the employee to you as his or her manager.

If you are contacted by one of your employees (or former employees) regarding a contact by an FDA investigator, you should advise the employee (or former employee) that whether they talk to the investigator is up to them. They are under no obligation to talk to the FDA investigators if they choose not to. Likewise, they have the right to talk with the investigator if they want to. They should also be advised that the Company will make an attorney available to assist them if they wish. The employee should be aware that once they decide to talk to the investigator, they must tell the truth. Serious criminal penalties can result from any misrepresentation made to a government investigator, whether or not the person is under oath.

If contacted, our employees have a right to advise the investigator that they would like to consider the request for interview and then contact, if they wish, someone within the Law Department. Such a request should be directed to me at extension 6378, Don Danahue at 0656 or Sharon Johe at 0644.

Wayne W. Juchacz

WWJ:

513 6L87