July 25, 1995

To: G. C. Pennell cc: Jim Helm
From: Michael Corcoran cc: Doug Shouse
 Michelle Soyars
 Kathryn Noxon

Subject: Project Symphony Meeting

As we are postponing our Symphony meeting tomorrow, I wanted you to be aware of a couple of issues that, in order to keep the ball rolling, we may want to address prior to next Monday. Here is one item we wanted to discuss:

• Diamond Shamrock - The issue here is to have everyone on board with the same plan.

I spoke today with R. P. Dotson, and H. J. Heintz in San Antonio. They had planned to call Diamond Shamrock today (though did not get through) to resolve the issues with Hogshaed. H.J. was able to set up an appointment with Jim Manning for this Friday.

As per discussions with David Owens last week, R. P. and I. I. were going to propose that Diamond Shamrock accept Hogshaed and sell it in their generic branded savings display, alongside Doral. They would not benefit from the $0.50/carton deal. I do not believe that would give Hogshaed due chance for success.

According to R. P., I am not sure with the merchandising contract we have with Diamond Shamrock that we will be able to "force" them into accepting the Hogshaed display as 

At a meeting today with Jim Helm, Kathryn Noxon and Michelle Soyars, we discussed the idea of having Diamond Shamrock accept the temporary Hogshaed counter display and switch it out with existing R.R. displays. For example, have the Hogshaed display up for a month instead of Doral, and for another month instead of Select, camel, etc.

• That leads to the test of idea within a test - to determine exactly what impact having full retailer support has on the success of the brand. Testing the success of Hogshaed with a retailer who does not support the brand, versus testing it with retailers who do, i.e. full partners Circle K and NCS supporting the brand against a Diamond Shamrock more conventional approach.

We could potentially have a similar situation in Pittsburgh, with UniMart. I just wanted you to be aware of the situation, and wanted to hear your reaction/recommendation.

9141 6293