R.J. Reynolds

Tobacco Company

May 8, 1996

PETER H.RAMM
Senior Counsel

P.O. Box 2959
Winston-Salem, NC 27102
910-741-2887
Telecopy: 910-741-7598

MEMO TO: Distribution

SUBJECT: FTC Document Request/Document Retention

The Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Competition has notified RJR that it is conducting a “non-public investigation” to determine if RJR is engaging in unlawful methods of competition or unfair practices by entering into agreements with retailers to maintain the prices of cigarettes.

As part of the FTC's notification of the existence of this inquiry, the FTC has requested RJR to produce a number of types of documents that are described herein below and to preserve these types of documents.

The purpose of this memo is to inform you of the existence of the FTC’s investigation and to alert you to the requirement that we suspend our normal document retention programs as to any documents created since January 1, 1993 that may be reasonably considered to be covered by the FTC's document request about any “price related programs.” The FTC has defined the term "price-related program" to include any program, arrangement or agreement between RJR and any retailer which contains any condition, requirement, element or eligibility criterion that pertains or relates to the retailers advertised or sales prices for cigarettes, including any requirement that the retailer offer R.J. Reynolds cigarettes for sale at the lowest price, the everyday lowest price, or at a price parity with cigarettes manufactured by other companies; or that interferes with the retailer’s pricing of a competitor's cigarettes, or that requires the retailer to raise the price of a competitor's cigarettes. The term includes, but is not limited to, the Co-Marketing Promotion Accrual Program, the Total Category Partner Programs, and the Pack Outlet Retailer Partners Program[s].

In addition to the broader category of documents referred to above, the FTC placed particular emphasis on all post-January 1, 1993 documents relating to RJR price related programs with retailers in the states of Georgia, North Carolina and Virginia. Call reports to these states, the requested documents may include such things as retail call westerns.

"We work for smokers.