Subject: Alternate Approaches to Low-Sidestream Cigarettes Date: December 21, 1982

To: A. Rodman
Dr. H. Pielh
Mr. J. D.Phillips

From: D. E. Townsend

Several staff members in R&D have obtained information which is applicable to the development of low-sidestream cigarettes. I have prepared two low-sidestream prototypes, one with information obtained by Dr. J. Harris and the other with Harris’ information combined with the use of “carbonized” filler provided by Mr. J. White. Informal smoking suggests that these prototypes do not exhibit the harsh, irritating mainstream taste and irritating sidestream aroma which is common to the current CC prototypes.

Dr. Harris has demonstrated (R&M, 1982, No. 50; CIM, 1980, No. 27; CIM, 1977, No. 4) that the use of cigarette paper made without CaCO3 filler results in very low smolder rates and hence low sidestream deliveries. The major disadvantage is that due to the reduced smolder rate, the puff count is extraordinarily high (70-25 puffs/cig). We suggested that unusual configurations are required to obtain cigarettes with reasonable deliveries and puff counts.

Prototype DET-11682-B was prepared with 60% CaCO3-free cigarette paper (supplied by Schweitzer) and 27.5mm long non air-diluted filters made with 2.9/44,000 TOW. Now 100 blended (high G-13 level) was used in an effort to reduce the puff count to acceptable levels. The results of smoke analyses are presented in Table I. It is clear that as compared to WINSTON SS (tar 25mg/cig; substantial reduction of tar), the measured sidestream “tar” were achieved while satisfactory mainstream delivery and acceptable puff count were obtained.

Prototype DET-11664-A was similar to that described above except that the filler included 30% carbonized flue-cured stem (obtained from Mr. J. White). While this reduced sidestream deliveries, the results of smoke analyses show in demonstrated that the use of “carbonized” filler in a blended results in reduced sidestream deliveries. A comparison of smoke in a tar shows that these of zero presented in Table II. The similarity between a and B is such that the term "low-sidestream" is appropriate. This prototype is only an upper limit, however. It is likely that without a further reduction in filler content, this prototype’s sidestream “tar” would be unacceptably high.

In summary, both prototypes have shown to have low sidestream deliveries. The first prototype (DET-11682-B) has the advantage of using readily available materials. The second prototype (DET-11664-A) is likely to provide a lower upper limit for sidestream “tar” but requires the use of carbonized flue-cured stem which may not be readily available.

D. E. Townsend
Research Scientist