.DEC-04-97 THU 11:17 AM MB BULK PACKAGING FAX NO. 7704283533 P. 06/08

United States
Department of
Agriculture Food Safety
and Inspection Washington, D.C.
Service 20250



Egg Products Inspection Division

June 14, 1996

Mr. Gary Brown
MacMillan Bloedel Bulk Packaging
Division of MacMillan Bloedel of America, Inc.
1811 West Oak Parkway
Marietta, Georgia 30062

Dear Mr. Brown:

This is in response to your June 4 letter requesting Department of Agriculture (USDA) approval of the polypropylene "True Blue Ball Valve," manufactured by BLDL, Inc., Tolowa, New Jersey, for use in plants operating under the federal egg products inspection program. You propose to use the apparatus as an outlet valve for attachment to your firm's single-use corrugated fiber IBC portable container approved for use in official egg products plants. Enclosed with your letter were specifications and drawings describing the construction of the BLDL ball valve.

Based on the information and drawing submitted and your written certification that the ball valve is fabricated of materials that comply with Federal Food and Drug Administration regulations, Title 21 CFR 177.1520, we are approving the polypropylene BLDL True Blue Valve as a component outlet valve on your firm’s IBC corrugated fiber container. This approval for use of the polypropylene valve in official egg products plants is subject to the following provisions:

1. The ball valve and stainless steel bag-puncture apparatus are completely disassembled after each use for cleaning and inspection.

2. Evidence of scoring or damage to the product contact surfaces of the ball valve affecting cleanability will result in termination of approval for use of an individual valve assembly.

3. As stated in previous discussions, corrugated fiber totes are not approved for storage of liquid egg products in official egg products. Therefore, upon installation of the valve on the container, the contents must be removed on a continuous basis until the container is empty.

If you have any additional questions, please contact this office.

Sincerely,

Fung & Clenhoff
Roger L. Glasshoff
National Supervisor, Plant Operations



51778 3756