12/28/96 13:46:35 Enhanced -> Page 7
12/28/96 FRI 12:01 FAX 312 661 2200 KB 66 KIRKLAND ELLIS 2007

CTR-Gen. N/A

J. L. EDENS
BBN INDUSTRIES
G. L. McCarty
Dr. J. W. Hughes
Donald Bryant
ERNEST DEELES/dlr
CTR Budget

April 4, 1976

American has at last agreed to along with the level of enthusiasm which the CTR requested of the companies and which BBN tentatively agreed to in December.  BBN, ARD, and Lortland are ready to proceed with this effort.  Add Yeaman shortly will schedule a meeting for this purpose.
American, as you conclude from the discussion concerning the operation and direction of efforts I think American will not vote for the budget unless we can get them to agree to our level of funding. You will remember Mr. Reisman’s letter dated December 6 to Add Yeaman. The letter took strong exception to the idea that CTR should direct the research.  Yeaman is in support of CTR plan and direct this research. Yeaman feels CTR should be a grantor organization and nothing more. In other words, CTR should make grants to scientists who are exploring areas of interest in the smoking and health controversy and the grantees, as opposed to CTR, should be responsible for the conduct of research. It is a distinction without much difference but American embraces it warmly.

American also concluded that part of the central nervous system/nicotine work was going to involve the use of human subjects which would require approval from the Justice Department.  The advice we received from our attorneys is that we should not pursue this blocking sort of approach because it would be difficult to get approval.

I am sending you a copy of the letter from Reisman dated December 6, 1975 and also a copy of the letter from Add Yeaman dated January 14, 1976.  These letters will give you some background on this situation.

We are now working to develop a more formal proposal which we can submit to American for their consideration.  I anticipate that this proposal will be ready in about two weeks.

The problem of the use of human subjects is one that we must resolve before we can proceed with any certainty.

JLD:dlr
YT 376

5/20/95