THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH—U.S.A., INC.

900 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022

HARDON C. MCALLISTER, PH.D.
RESEARCH DIRECTOR

Nov. 7, 1990

Dr. Victor Herrera, M.D.
Section of Molecular Genetics Room L 411
Boston University School of Medicine
80 E. Concord St.
Boston, MA 02118

Dear Dr. Herrera:

Thank you for your expression of interest in our program of research support. I am pleased to enclose a statement describing policies of The Council and a recent Annual Report that lists grants currently supported. Our application procedure entails a mandatory two-step process. First, a short preliminary inquiry is sent to members of the Executive Committee of our Scientific Advisory Board who evaluate it for scientific merit and for “fit” into The Council’s current multidisciplinary biomedical research program. If the Committee's review vote is positive, you will be provided with forms and instructions for completing a full application. In the event you receive an award, The Council will consider up to two annual renewals on the basis of progress reports and materials submitted with renewal applications.

The Council operates two application cycles per year and accepts preliminary inquiries year-round; the date of receipt by CTR determines the cycle in which the proposal is evaluated.
Fall cycle - inquiries received between April 1 and September 30 and encouraged by the Executive Committee may be submitted as a full application by November 30.
Spring cycle - inquiries received between October 1 and March 31 and encouraged by the Committee may be submitted as full applications by May 31:

Cycle Preliminary Inquiry Deadline for Notification Activation
Fall Apr 1 – Sep 30 Full Application Date Date
Spring Oct 1 – Mar 31 May 31 Early May Jul 1
Early Oct Jan 1

The format for the preliminary application is as follows:

1. Three page narrative summary. This should contain a synopsis of the proposed project including relevant background material, its present status and goals, a brief outline of the research and its impact. The summary should end with a sentence indicating the anticipated duration of the project (one to three years) and a single figure estimate of the anticipated absolute direct costs of the study through three years. Please note that the page limit is strict; no attachments paper containing photographs or other materials will be allowed if annual, it shall include supporting data and references.

2. Two page curriculum vitae, one for principal investigator and one for each senior personnel who will collaborate on the project (as noted in the application).

3.  A separate letter detailing CTR’s participation in the proposed research. This letter should be signed by an institutional official.

Sincerely,

Hardon C. McAllister, Ph.D.
Director of Research

HCM:djw

Enclosure

0289/11/7/90