MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY - GILINER HALL EAST LANSING * MICHIGAN * 48824-1301

August 21, 1991

Dr. Harmon C. McAllister
Research Director
Council for Tobacco Research-U
900 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022

Dear Dr. McAllister:

The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) will sponsor the third FASEB Summer Research Conference on the "Physiology and Pathophysiology of the Splanchnic Circulation", which will be held at Copper Mountain, Colorado on July 26-31, 1992. This conference will tentatively have sessions on the following topics:

Session I Chemical Modulators of Gastrointestinal Blood Flow
Session II Interactions Between Neural and Local Mechanisms of Vasoregulation
Session III Molecular and Cellular Basis of Microvascular Functions
Session IV The Microvasculature and Gastrointestinal Mucosal Injury; Role of Blood Flow and Vascular Permeability
Session V The Microvasculature and Gastrointestinal Mucosal Repair; Role of Angiogenesis
Session VI Role of the Circulation in Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
Session VII Hepatic Circulation and Metabolism
Session VIII Alcohol Effects on the Liver and G.I. Tract
Session IX Portal Hypertension

The philosophy and goals of the meeting are unique. In addition to bringing together clinicians and basic scientists with interests in disorders of the splanchnic organs, the meeting will bring together investigators of the splanchnic circulation together with investigators using molecular or molecular techniques. Thus, we hope to identify potential new research areas and to stimulate interdisciplinary research efforts. As the Conference Chairman, I would like to invite approximately 50 eminent investigators to speak at the meeting, and I want to encourage a number of promising young investigators to attend, by paying their expenses. Although both the American Gastroenterological Society and FASEB have endorsed the conference and have provided generous financial support, I still need about $15,000 to ensure that the meeting is a scientific success. The funds will be used exclusively for support of travel expenses and basic science student/postdoctoral foreign participants and itinerant clinicians ($1000 and $1000 for domestic and costs)

Any amount of funding your organization can contribute will be greatly appreciated. If you are interested in supporting the meeting, please contact me or Mrs. Mary Ann Klinger, Conference Coordinator, at (517) 353-4296.



Sincerely,

Harmon C. McAllister, Ph.D.
Professor of Physiology