THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH—U.S.A., INC.

900 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022

HARMON C. MCALISTER, PH.D.
RESEARCH DIRECTOR

May 29, 1990

Dr. Alan Mufson, Ph.D.
Holland Laboratory
for BioScience
American Red Cross
15601 Crabbs Branch Way
Rockville, MD 20855

Dear Dr. Mufson:

Thank you for your expression of interest in our program of research support. I am pleased to enclose a statement describing policies of The Council and a recent Support Report that lists grants currently supported. Our application procedure is a two step process. First, a short preliminary inquiry is sent to members of the Executive Committee of our Scientific Advisory Board who evaluate it for scientific merit and form “fit” into The Council’s current multidisciplinary biomedical research program. If the Committee's review vote is positive, you will be provided with forms and instructions for completing a full application. In the event you receive an award, The Council will consider up to two annual renewals on the basis of progress reports and materials submitted with renewal applications.

The deadlines for submission of a full application are May 31 and November 30; activation is typically seven months later. CTR accepts preliminary applications continuously—those received between April 1 and September 30 that are approved are eligible for the November deadline; those received between October 1 and March 31 are approved as eligible for inclusion in the May cycle. The format for the preliminary application is as follows:

1. A three page narrative summary. This should contain a synopsis of the proposed project including relevant background material, its present status and goals, a brief outline of the research and its impact. The summary should end with a sentence indicating the anticipated duration of the project (one, two or three years) and a single figure estimate of the anticipated annual direct costs of the study as proposed. Please note that the three page limit is absolute; no attachment pages containing photographs, charts or literature citations will be accepted. If you judge such materials are critical for the review of the proposal, they must be accommodated within the three page limitation.

2. Two page curricula vitae and scientific bibliographies of the applicant and principal professional level collaborators (the NIH format is quite acceptable). Again, the page limit is strictly enforced; only two pages per investigator are forwarded to the Committee.

3. One copy each of any two or three published abstracts, guides or manuscripts that are closely related to the project for which funding is being sought.

Sincerely,

Harhon C. McAllister
Director

enc/
RMc



May 29, 1990