Nucleic Acid Technologies Foundation

PO Box 5803, Akron, OH 44305

July 1, 1996                                    Sept 7/9/16

George A. Hashim
Associate Research Director
The Council for Tobacco Research - USA, Inc.
900 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022

Dear Dr. Hashim:

On September 19-22 of this year; an international conference on Frontiers of Mitochondrial Research will be held at the Rensselaer Institute & Albany Center, located just outside of Albany, New York. This will be the fifteenth in the series of Albany Conferences organized by the Nucleic Acid Technologies Foundation, in conjunction with several area academic and scientific institutions.

As you can see from the enclosed flyer for this year’s meeting, the topic is a very timely one. There has been a burst of interest in recent years on mitochondrial involvement in normal cell function and in disease. Mitochondrial defects are being implicated in a host of neurological, muscular, and metabolic disorders (including diabetes). In addition, considerable interest is starting to focus on mitochondria as targets for a wide range of drugs, including benzodiazepines, immunosuppressants, channel blockers, and nucleoside analogs. Because of renewed interest in this “old” organelle, the meeting is attracting a distinguished group of front-line researchers to present their latest work.

The reputation and visibility of the Albany Conferences series have grown with each meeting over the past 11 years. However, as with all ventures of this type, we rely heavily on outside sponsors to help underwrite some of the expenses. Each year we have been fortunate to receive significant support from private organizations such as yours, who have vested interest in promoting biomedical research.

The Albany Conferences are unique in many ways, including their intimate nature and interdisciplinary focus. The audiences have been very appreciative of the chance to exchange ideas in an environment we provide. We bake every effort to let them know which companies have helped to make each meeting possible.

This is a request that you consider helping us make the 1996 Albany Conference on Frontiers of Mitochondrial Research a success with your sponsorship. We are seeking contributions in the range of $5000 to $35,000. Higher level contributors carry perks such as single-room accommodations for scientific representatives (registration fee waived) and full-page sponsor acknowledgements in the program (design of your choosing but no product advertising). Certainly, we would also be pleased to receive smaller contributions, all of which will be recognized at the meeting and in the final materials.



Sept 19-22, 1996