09/17/83 18:18 LORILLARD -> SALES GENERAL 002/004

August 26, 1993

Excerpts of a letter from the American Wholesale Marketers Association sent to
Michael Miles, Chairman, Philip Morris, as a result of PM’s recent pricing actions:
Dear Mr. Miles:

By now you have heard from a broad cross section of the candy and tobacco distribution
industry regarding your July 22 pricing announcement... Time alone will tell how
effective any wholesale distributor has been in counteracting this blow to the business
and the way it was traditionally conducted. It will not, however, take long to assess the
impact on the fabric of a long-standing supplier to wholesaler relationship. We think it is
worthwhile to give you our sense of what wholesale distributors are saying.

In an industry whose products are attacked at every turn, mutual trust and concomitant
business support are essential elements of survival. Unilateral action by any channel
participant has the potential to upset the delicate balance in today’s cigarette market.
Philip Morris' treatment of its wholesale customers exhibits a callous disregard for the
interests faced by long-time partners. You have sent a message which can only
be interpreted by our members and your competitors as lacking any particular
commitment to the future of candy and tobacco wholesalers.

Philip Morris has changed the very nature of cigarette marketing and distribution in this
country. Specifically, your actions have:

* Interfered with wholesalers’ ability to maintain a traditional business
relationship with the retail accounts by directly contacting those accounts for
the purpose of trying to influence their pricing decisions while limiting the ability
of distributors to independently price their product;

* Disregarded the current economic realities surrounding the distribution of
cigarettes and the disastrous impact your actions have had, and will continue to
exercise, on the ability of candy and tobacco distributors to survive, let alone earn
a profit;

* Crippled the essentials of trust, partnership and mutual support necessary to maintain
a jointly beneficial distribution network in today’s environment;

* Focused overt efforts on the part of PM field sales representatives to shift
distribution away from candy and tobacco wholesalers in favor of alternative
participants.

Over the long run, there are all costs. You positive to work against Philip Morris' plans
and marketer share if your company continues to do it. We believe Philip Morris to
use distribution’s commitment to maintain relationships but we have been listening
to our customers and they are not happy.

AWBA has undertaken a study of PM’s pricing strategy and its impact on the wholesale
distribution network. Our findings will be shared with our members in the near future.
We urge you to reconsider your current course of action, and to engage in meaningful
dialogue with us regarding the future of candy and tobacco distribution.

Sincerely,

Tom Klein ->