APR 5 1971 P&W file

B&W

BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION

1706 West Hill Street - Louisville, Kentucky 40201

March 11, 1971

Dr. John H. Kreisher
The Council for Tobacco Research - U.S.A.
110 East Fifty-Ninth Street
New York, New York 10022

Dear John:

I would like to indicate for you some of my thoughts on the current Walton-Morrissey Smoking Machine, demonstrated at the March 9 meeting.

It is obvious that considerable thought and effort has gone into bringing the machine to its present state of development. From a mechanical viewpoint the design is simple, straightforward, and should require minimum maintenance. There are several design features I would like to comment on, some of which were discussed at the meeting.

The design of the inhalation chamber is such that smoke distribution within the chamber is a function of the smoke entrance velocity and the dilution air stream. Since the entrance velocity is constant, as the dilution air is decreased, the effective distribution must, therefore, decrease. After the two second puff is terminated, the smoke begins to age for an interval equal to the exposure time. Due to the chamber design it also begins to settle to the bottom of the chamber where the concentration is increased. Dr. Rosenkrantz commented that animals in the lower area always expire first. Only a long term study would establish a definite pattern.

During the meeting, attention was brought to the close proximity of the cigarettes to each other. Dr. Rosenkrantz was able to determine if the free burn rate is changed due to radiant heat. The current holder design is based upon the use of 45 mm diameter Cambridge pads which restrict the space to one-eighth apart. As I pointed out to you at the time, 70 mm dia. Cambridge pads are available which would permit the cigarettes to be moved further apart.

A final point in question is the capillary entrance port. This design creates a potential for two physical changes to occur to the smoke aerosol. As the column is compressed into the small diameter tunnel, the chance for smoke between particles is increased. If the

XTR CONFRALS 009745