Coalition for Clean Indoor Air and Health Protection

April 15, 1991

Jack Sweeney, Chairman
El Dorado County Board of Supervisors
330 Fair Lane
Placerville, CA 95667

Dear Supervisor Sweeney:

Enclosed for your consideration is the draft smoking ordinance prepared by the Clean Indoor Air and Health Protection Coalition. Although the draft ordinance passed by a vote of 7-1-0, we feel that it is important to express the different viewpoints of the committee members. This letter attempts to present both the majority and minority opinions of our group.

The majority of the members of the committee feel that anything short of an 100 percent smoke-free ordinance is not favorable to the health and safety of the public. The majority believe that smoke freely from smoking to non-smoking areas, and 100 percent smoke-free is the only way to protect both employees in the workplace and the public at large. The minority group would rather allow businesses to set their own policies and avoid mandating policy altogether.

The primary difference of opinion centers around protecting the rights of business owners to set policy versus protecting the non-smoker public. The minority position of the committee believes that since there is no threshold established for the amount of second-hand smoke that is hazardous, we do not have sufficient basis to establish a 100 percent smoke-free policy. They feel that each business owner should be allowed to set their own smoking policy. The majority believe that a threshold is not necessary. Second-hand smoke has been proven to be harmful to non-smokers. In our survey to business owners in El Dorado County, 83 percent believe that second-hand smoke is hazardous to nonsmokers’ health.

Another area of disagreement is the treatment of employees. Many members believe that all businesses should be treated the same. Allowing smoking sections in restaurants will expose employees to second-hand smoke, but the ordinance requires all other businesses to provide areas free of smoking. Please refer to the attached letter from Betty Turner, Policy Director of the American Lung Association for further explanation.

TCAL0447628