TECHNICAL PROCESSES DIVISION
OF COLONIAL ALLOYS COMPANY
1320 NEW HAVEN AVE.
ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY 08401
(609) 344-3528

March 29, 1990

University of California
San Diego, California

Att: James R. White
Physiologist

Dear Mr. White,

Re: Your study on Passive Smoke
New England Journal of Medicine.

It is indeed heartening that at long last scientific evidence is available to show the harmful effects of passive smoke on non smokers.

We have done research on less harmful effects of cigarettes for the non smoker and the smoker himself for over 20 years. The results of our research have produced a number of patents which have a major effect of reducing the sidestream smoke to almost zero, thus removing the very dangers to the lungs of the non smoker.

You have stated "I think the protection of human health is very important." I'm one who really detests legislation, but I wouldn’t have any idea how to protect non smokers without some type of legislation". We have this answer.

Our developments in this area are based on coating the cigarette paper with a well known, safe compound which has been documented over the years to be clearer, tasteless, odorless, inert, non carcinogenic and non allergenic, releasing only a small amount of water vapor into the smoke stream.

The applied compound forms an insulating cover over the burning coal which, in turn, slows the burning rate of the cigarette between puffs, without interfering with the quantity, quality and taste of the puff.

The state of California has tested our cigarette development for its properties of fire resistance. Enclosed is a copy of their report.

The Department of Health, Education and Welfare tested an earlier version of our cigarette development with non smokers inhaling about 20% less “tar” nicotine and carbon monoxide results than without smoke. Our tests indicate that this improvement takes place in the sidestream smoke. See enclosed results of their report.

We have also developed a cigarette which we call "Cigarettes
Without Smoke". This is an even greater improvement.

Sincerely,

Richard S. Shaughnessy, Ph.D.
Research Director

T1084-0086