May 29, 1997

BY TELECOPY

The Honorable Orne H. Carlson
Governor’s Office
130 State Capitol
St. Paul, MN 55155

Dear Governor Carlson:

I am writing to you on behalf of Swedish Match North America Inc. (“SMNA”) to express my company's concern about particular aspects of H.F. No. 117. By way of background, SMNA has recently begun to import cigars into the United States. Our product line is comprised of cigars in all price segments (from low priced to premium) and it is our intention to introduce over 30 varieties of cigars into the United States market. Accordingly, SMNA’s entry into the United States (and Minnesota) cigar market will foster greater competition and offer adult consumers of cigars additional products from which to choose.

Section 5 of H.F. No. 117 however, represents a substantial barrier to SMNA's entry of the Minnesota cigar market. This section would require companies that sell cigars in Minnesota to submit a report which identify, by brand, whether detectable levels of ammonia or any compound of ammonia, arsenic, cadmium, formaldehyde or lead are present in their product in its burned or unburned state.

SMNA does not currently have in place any testing procedures to determine the presence of these substances. It has never had a need to develop such procedures because no other country or state requires collection of this information. Moreover, the development of such testing procedures would take significant time. SMNA would not be able to develop such procedures prior to August 1, 1997 – the date by which sellers of cigars in Minnesota must begin to collect data regarding and disclose the requirements of the H.F. No. 117 enumerated substances. Finally, even if a testing procedure could be developed in a timely manner, the cost of testing over 30 varieties of cigars both in a burned and unburned state would be substantial.

Faced with these problems, SMNA simply could not sell its cigars in the State of Minnesota. Based upon SMNA’s knowledge of the United States cigar industry, SMNA anticipates that other relatively small cigar manufacturers and importers would be forced to make the same choice because H.F. No. 117's requirements would be too burdensome. Moreover, even larger cigar manufacturing and importers would face with this clause. In short, the impact of

Swedish Match Chewing Tobacco Division

POST OFFICE BOX 54689
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 85044
Telephone: (602) 995-4111



T11121-794