Draft submissions from Machinists tobacco locals to FDA

Dockets Management Branch (HFA-305)
Food and Drug Administration
Room 1-23
14220 Parklawn Drive
Rockville, MD 20857

RE: 9SN-0253
(Regulations Restricting the Sale and Distribution of Cigarettes and Smokeless Tobacco Products)

On behalf of Machinists Local (local number), I am writing to express our strong opposition to the proposed regulation of tobacco products by the FDA.

The proposed regulations, taken in their entirety, will certainly lead to much more severe controls on the use of tobacco products by adults. They go right at the economic viability of the tobacco industry and in turn the livelihood of our members whose jobs depend on the industry.

What is most outrageous is that rarely in all the debate over tobacco regulation is there ever a mention of the jobs of thousands of hard working men and women whose livelihoods depend on the tobacco industry. The excellent wages and benefits we earn enable us to provide for our families, send our children to college, care for our parents, grandparents and grandchildren.

Because of these wages and benefits, we bolster the standard of living and quality of life in our community. Tobacco industry workers will not be the only ones hurt by this attack on the tobacco industry. The people who work in the businesses we patronize—the restaurants, grocery stores, appliance shops, hair dressers and car dealers to name a few—will pay a high price as well for these misguided and punitive regulation.

Our union agrees that teen smoking is an important issue that should be addressed. But regulating away thousands of jobs is not the answer. States are already required by federal law to pass legislation restricting access of tobacco products to minors. Our union and the industry support these efforts.

Tobacco is a legal product produced by American workers and should continue to be treated as such. A percentage of American adults will choose to use tobacco products.

TI1686-0527