AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY, INC.

216 EAST 45TH STREET • NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 • (212) 867-3700

WILLIAM B. LEWIS
CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF DIRECTORS

April 17, 1970

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman, 3rd
Chairman of the Executive Committee
The Tobacco Institute, Inc.
100 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017

Dear Mr. Cullman:

The Veterans Administration, the American Cancer Society and Doctors Auerbach and Hammond cannot accede to the requests stated in your letter of February 27 and March 20 for an evaluation of the Auerbach-Hammond study on “The Effects of Cigarette Smoking Upon Dogs” by a panel of independent scientists chosen by you.

Your request is without precedent in the scientific community. The study under question was the result of three and one-half years of diligent work by two eminently qualified scientists whose findings have been validated by distinguished pathologists of worldwide reputation. In addition, other leading pathologists, highly regarded by the scientific group, have visited Dr. Auerbach’s laboratory, seen his slides and praised the work.

We do not intend to ask that these two eminent men submit their findings to any selected committee chosen by the Tobacco Institute, or any other group. Their work will be judged in the traditional manner of American science: where findings are presented, discussed, accepted or rejected by scientists and physicians whose only motivation is the truth. Doctors Auerbach and Hammond worked freely and without restraint with funds furnished by the federal government and the American Cancer Society. They are beholden only to the scientific community at large and to integrity it represents.

If the Tobacco Institute, or any scientific research group, has doubts about the findings of this study, the way to have conducted the credentials of the investigators, data is time-worn and scientifically accepted way to proceed. Let your own or another group of scientists repeat the experiment in a laboratory setting to prove that smoking dogs do not suffer from emphysema and lung cancer. The Auerbach-Hammond methodology is readily available to you. And I presume that in the Council for Tobacco Research you have or can set up the mechanism for conducting such a study. If you feel it necessary to publish your “objective positions” in the medical and lay public, you have our permission to use this letter as the supportive heading of the American Cancer Society.

Sincerely,

[Signature]
William B. Lewis
President