THOMAS A. MCCLURE

B-5

Research Economist, Agricultural and Food Economics
Technical Economics and Business Planning Section

B.S., Agricultural Economics (1964) The Ohio State University
M.S., Agricultural Economics (1965) The Ohio State University
Ph.D., Agricultural Economics (1972) The Ohio State University

Dr. McClure’s primary interests center in the areas of production economics, marketing, statistical analysis, and other technoeconomic aspects of firms engaged in agrimarketing operations. During his employment at Battelle he has participated in a variety of research studies on a wide range of topics, such as meat and poultry processing, livestock feed marketing, fertilizers, herbicides, and economic aspects of livestock waste handling. He is author or coauthor of more than 40 Battelle research reports, many of which deal with venture feasibility and business planning.

Recently, Dr. McClure was part of a project team that performed an analysis of factors affecting the supply and demand for protein in the United States during parts of the world. His particular assignment was to evaluate the outlook for various crops as protein suppliers. Other recent research has centered around investigation of international opportunities in plant breeding and agricultural seed production and marketing. He has also conducted work related to identification of new product opportunities in the area of seed treatments and seed pelletization.

One of Dr. McClure’s current research activities involves an investigation of resource requirements and production costs of sugar crops and the resultant implications for producing energy from plant biomass. This work involves a detailed economic analysis of inputs utilized in producing sugarcane, sugar beets, and sweet sorghum, along with anticipated changes resulting from adoption of new cultural practices.

In 1972 he received his Ph.D. degree in agricultural economics from The Ohio State University. The subject of his doctoral dissertation was “An Economic Analysis of Retail Fertilizer Plant Operations in the United States.” This subject was an outgrowth of several fertilizer-related studies at Battelle during the 1968-71 period.

Dr. McClure is a member of the American Agricultural Economics Association and has been associated with Battelle since 1966. He also participates in the management of the family’s cash grain farm in Central Ohio which provides point-of-view experience in dealing with crop production from the producer's perspective.