SENT BY:Xerox Telecopier 7021 11-12-31-92 11:22:11

49 2203 303382:11 5

BIO

Angelo P. John is the founder and director of the A.P. Institute for Cancer Research. In 1978, the institute was incorporated as a non-profit corporation in the State of Connecticut. In 1982, it was awarded a tax-exempt status.

Mr. John has been studying and researching cancer for more than 35 years. He worked as a dietitian for five years while attending evening college classes in anatomy, physiology, biology and biochemistry.

In 1981 his book, DIATITS, ANTI-CANCER NUTRIENTS INTAKE PREVENTION & CURE was published by Bridgeview Books of New York. In this book Mr. John outlined his concepts on the prevention, causation and treatment of cancer -- all of which contradicted the prevailing concepts on cancer.

In the past several years, all of his concepts have either been validated or are very near being confirmed. For example:

a) Diet and nutrition can help prevent cancer. (In 1961 anyone who suggested that diet and nutrition had anything to do with cancer was considered a "food quack")

b) The 50-odd nutrients derived from proper diet are used to comprise within the body a DETOXIFICATION SYSTEM, and this DETOX SYSTEM (along with individual nutrients such as Vitamin A, C and E, plus carotene and selenium), act as the first line of defense against cancer.

c) Most cancers in man are caused by chemicals (such as the oxygen radicals) which are generated within the body. When the radicals are not properly DETOXIFIED, they become free radical damage, pre-cancerous cells develop which most often develop into cancer.

d) Most cancers do not develop because of genetic abnormalities (such as mutations, transposed genes, oncogenes or suppressor genes), but instead in a defect in cell structures called the CENTRIOLES, which control the process of cell replication.

e) Cancer can be successfully treated with a technique called INTRA TUMOR THERAPY - which entails injecting a chemical such as hydrogen peroxide directly into the tumor. At the same time, a patient would be placed on diet and nutritional therapy.

In 1980 Mr. John also developed a new technique for treating cancer (which he had patented), called ISCHEMIA-REPERFUSION TUMOR MAP THERAPY. Initial trials Sweden have proven highly successful.

Mr. John believes that this developed technique INTRA TUMOR THERAPY, ISCHEMIA-REPERFUSION THERAPY and DIET AND NUTRITIONAL THERAPY available to all healthcare patients, along with chemotherapy required only rarely, could prevent what is a highly treatable disease.

219870761