Craig Shirley

President and Chief Executive Officer, Craig Shirley & Associates, Inc.

Craig Shirley is president and chief executive officer of Craig Shirley & Associates, Inc., a public affairs/public relations firm in Alexandria, Va. Since founding the company in February 1992, he has worked with many political, trade and corporate clients.

Shirley began his career in 1978, serving as press secretary for U.S. Sen. Gordon Humphrey. In early 1980, he left the senator’s office to direct the Fund for a Conservative Majority's independent campaign that supported Ronald Reagan for president. In 1981, he became an account executive with a major New York advertising firm, managing programs for the New York Racing Association and the C.F. Hathaway Shirt Company. In 1982, he became the communications advisor to the Republican National Committee, traveling across the country advising campaigns and state committees on public relations, political advertising and campaign strategy. During the 1984 presidential campaign, Shirley became director of communications for the National Conservative Political Action Committee, the largest independent political committee that spent more than $14 million on behalf of President Reagan’s reelection.

Later in 1984, Shirley formed Craig Shirley & Associates, Inc. In 1987, he joined forces with David Keene to form Keene, Shirley & Associates, Inc. For five years, Shirley worked on several major public relations/public affairs campaigns until he re-opened Craig Shirley & Associates, Inc.

A frequent commentator and public speaker, Shirley lectures at various seminars and has contributed articles to numerous publications, including The Los Angeles Times, The Washington Times and others.

Phil Stout

Executive Director, Nevada Association of Independent Businesses

Phil Stout is the executive director of the Nevada Association of Independent Businesses, an 800- member association that lobbies state legislators on behalf of small business.

Stout began his career in the U.S. Navy, serving as a meteorologist from 1959 to 1963. He left the Navy and spent a year as an accountant for Pan American World Airlines. He drew on his Navy experience when he began working for U.S. Weather Bureau in 1964. He spent a year working on the Nevada Test Site Project and then moved to the Pacific Weather Project/Far East work from 1965 to 1967. He worked charting the weather for ships traveling in the Far East until he was transferred and disabled at Cam Rahn-Bay, Vietnam, in 1967.

Stout returned to Nevada, later, became involved in politics. He was elected to the Henderson City Council in 1975 and served as chairman of the council in 1978. He still serves on the Henderson Municipal Power Board.

Since 1986, Stout has been actively involved in conservative causes. He is a founding member of Americans for Prosperity Nevada and previously served as president of the Clark County Republican Party.  He also served as chairman of the Nevada State Conservative Forum. Stout is married to the former Patricia Ann Hixson. They have three children: daughters, Michelle and Jennifer, and son, Steven. Stout enjoys hunting, fishing, camping and spending time with his family. He is a graduate of the University of Arizona, where he studied meteorology.

2047135-2