Conti-Fine, B.N.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personnel and collaborators. Begin with the principal investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

NAME	POSITION TITLE
Sijin Lei	Assistant Scientist

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION	DEGREE	YEAR
Beijing Normal University	B.S.	1984	FIELD OF STUDY
Beijing Normal University	M.S.	1987	Biology
Beijing Normal University	Ph.D.	1988	Biology

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Including with present position, list in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and honors. Key personnel typically will include individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects we will include individuals at the masters or bachelor’s level. This section should provide a summary of the activities that demonstrate the qualifications of the key personnel to be present members on any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in chronological order, the titles, if all others, and complete references to all publications during the past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

1992-94	Assistant Scientist, Dept. of Biochemistry, Univ. of Minnesota. Research project: Topology of acetylcholine receptor α-subunit.
1990-92	Junior Scientist, Dept. of Biochemistry, Univ. of Minnesota.
project: Topology of acetylcholine receptor α-subunit. Research
1988-90	Visiting student, Dept. of Biochemistry, Univ. of Minnesota. Research project: Production and characterization anti-acetylcholine receptor mAbs.
1978-84	Lab. Tech., Inst. of Biology, Beijing Normal University. 1981. Research field: Cell proliferation.

Publications:

Bellone, M., Osle, N. L., Lei, S., and Conti-Tronconi, B.M. 1991. Experimental Myasthenia Gravis in a transgenic mouse strains. Sequence mapping and H-2 restriction of T helper epitopes on the α-subunit of Toroidal acetylcholine receptor. J. Immunol. 147:3725-3731.

Lei, S., Bellone, M., Osle, N. L., and Conti-Tronconi, B.M. 1990. A monoclonal antibody to a specific antigenic determinant on the Toroidal acetylcholine receptor α-subunit inhibits its ability to bind acetylcholine. J. Biol. Chem. 265:17384-17389.

Lei, S., Bellone, M., Osle, N. L., and Conti-Tronconi, B.M. 1990. A monoclonal antibody to a specific antigenic determinant on the Toroidal acetylcholine receptor α-subunit inhibits its ability to bind acetylcholine. Abstract, FASEB J. 4:3275.

Bellone, M., Lei, S., Osle, N. L., and Conti-Tronconi, B.M. 1989. A monoclonal antibody to a specific antigenic determinant on the Toroidal acetylcholine receptor α-subunit inhibits its ability to bind acetylcholine. Abstract, FASEB J. 3:2745.

Conti-Tronconi, B.M., Bellone, M., Lei, S., and Osle, N. L. 1989. A monoclonal antibody to a specific antigenic determinant on the Toroidal acetylcholine receptor α-subunit inhibits its ability to bind acetylcholine. J. Biol. Chem. 264:15370-15375.

Other contributions:

Reviewer for Journal of Biological Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Molecular Biology.

NIH Study Section member: Neurosciences, Peripheral Nervous System.