FF

Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last, first, middle: CLARISSA NAFTZGER)

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

NAME                                  POSITION TITLE
Clarissa Natzger                         Postdoctoral Fellow

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION              DEGREE           YEAR
CONFERRED
University of California, Berkeley, CA     B.A.             1985
Cornell University Medical College & Memorial    Ph.D.            1994
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY

RESEARCH AND/OR PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Conducting with present position, but in chronological order previous employment, experiences, and other relevant information.  Describe principal duties only briefly; do not include a detailed description of education or clinical project. Key personnel typically will include all individuals who have made substantial contributions to the research. In some projects which involve the masters or doctoral level training, it is appropriate to list the names of those who provided direct supervision. The NIH requires that Federal government public advisory committees. List in chronological order, the titles, dates, and contacts references to applications during the past three years to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Professional Experience:

1984 - 1985   "Mapping atherosclerosis genes in mice"
                Undergraduate research project with Dr. Beverly Paigen
                Children’s Hospital, Oakland, CA

1985 - 1987   Production Chemist II, Department of In Process Testing
                Hybritech, Inc., San Diego, California

1988 - 1994   "Immune recognition of murine gD/75"
                Ph.D. thesis with Dr. Alan Houghton
                Immunology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY

1994 - present  “The role of heat shock proteins in tumor reognition”
                Post-doctoral fellowship with Dr. Alan Krensky
                Stanford University Medical School, Stanford, California

Honors and Awards:

1994 - present   Immunology Program Training Fellowship
                Stanford University Medical Center

Bibliography:

See attached cards of A Houghton; 1987. J. Immunology, 139: 3909-3915.
C. Natzger, S. Vangrispergen, H. Shilo, and G.N. Gilliland.  A novel transcription factor is associated with the human erythropoietin locus. 1993.
C. Natzger, A. Houghton, D. Billig, M. Zeller, and G.N. Gilliland.  A 75 kd glycoprotein binds to murine herpes simplex virus gD and induces T cell proliferation. 1994. J. Immunology, 153: 4086-4093.
C. Natzger, S. Vangrispergen, H. Shilo, and G.N. Gilliland.  A novel transcription factor is associated with the human erythropoietin locus. 1993. Blood, 82: 746-752.



