Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last, first middle): Liu, Lin

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personal and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

NAME
Liu, Lin

POSITION TITLE
Research Associate

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION DEGREE YEAR
CONFERRED FIELD OF STUDY
Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry Ph.D. 1989 Biochemistry
(Shanghai, China)
Univ. of Science & Technology of China B.Sc. 1984 Chemistry

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Conducting with present position list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key personnel should include all individuals with doctoral or professional degrees, but in some cases it may be appropriate to include individuals at the baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government advisory committee. List, in chronological order, the titles, roles, and responsibilities of all publications during the past three years and to represent earlier publication patterns to this application. If the list of publications in the last three years exceeds two pages, select the most pertinent publications. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

RESEARCH AND/OR PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

1992-Present Research Associate, University of Pennsylvania, Institute for Environmental Medicine, Philadelphia
1991-1992 Post Doctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania, Institute for Environmental Medicine, Philadelphia
1990-1991 Post Doctoral Fellow, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia

HONORS

1992 Natural Science Award of Chinese Academy of Science

PUBLICATIONS

Liu, L., Q.S. Lin. Interaction of choline dehydrogenase and phospholipids. Acta Biochim. Biophys. Sinica 27:1, 1990.

Liu, L., R.D. Wu, Q.S. Lin. A fusion between mitochondria and inner membrane. Biophys. - lateral diffusion coefficients.  J. Biol. Chem. 265:22834-22841, 1990.

Liu, L., Q.S. Lin. Biochemical studies on mitochondrial membranes. Abstracts. Federation of European Biochemical Societies, Lille, France, p. 32-37, 1989.

Liu, L., R.D. Wu, Q.S. Lin.  Studies on intermembrane space proteins in mitochondria. Biophysics and biochemistry. Abstracts. Chinese University of Science and Technology, Nanjing, China, p. 64-65, 1988.

Liu, L., Q.S. Lin.  Choline dehydrogenase: purification and characterization. FEBS Letters 230:2, 1988.

Liu, L., R.D. Wu, Q.S. Lin.  A new method for measuring the inner membrane potential of mitochondria. Chinese Journal of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 24:7, 1988.

Liu, L., Q.S. Lin.  The role of phospholipids in mitochondrial function. Abstracts. International Congress of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Bethesda, MD, p. 356, 1987.

Liu, L., R.D. Wu, Q.S. Lin.  Studies on the intermembrane space proteins in mitochondria. Abstracts. International Congress of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Bethesda, MD, p. 357, 1987.