FF

Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last, first, middle):

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personal and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

NAME
HALAZONETIS, Thanos, D.D.S., Ph.D.

POSITION TITLE
Assistant Professor

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION                                     DEGREE                      YEAR
CONFERRED          FIELD OF STUDY
University of Athens, School of Dentistry,                   D.D.S.                  1982         Dentistry
Athens, Greece
Tuffs Univ., School of Dental Medicine, Boston, MA     Certificate             1984        Periodontology
Harvard University, Graduate School of                     Ph.D.                    1989          Genetics
Arts and Sciences, Boston, MA

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Conducting with present position list in chronological order, previous employment experience, and honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and other individuals who contribute to the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personel may include all individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level who provide significant contributions to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include present membership on any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in chronological order, titles, authors, and complete references to publications during the past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

1989-1990   Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA (in
            the laboratory of Prof. Philip Leder, who was also my Ph.D. thesis advisor)

1990-1993   Project Leader, Merck Sharp and Dohme Research Laboratories, West Point, PA

1993-present  Assistant Professor, The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, PA

1993-present  Adjunct Assistant Professor, Department of Pathology, University of Pennsylvania Medical
            School, Philadelphia, PA

Member

American Association for the Advancement of Science
American Association Cancer Research
Philadelphia’s Cancer Research Association

PHS 388 (Rev. 9/91)                                    Form Page 6 of 34
Number pages consecutively at the bottom through the application. If more than sufficient space exists,