BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personnel and collaborators. Begin with the principal investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

NAME
Carol C. Korte

POSITION TITLE
Research Technician

TRAINING (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION	DEGREE	YEAR
CONFERRED	FIELD OF STUDY
Northern Illinois University, Dekalb, IL	B.S.	1991	Biology
Northern Illinois University, Dekalb, IL	M.S.	1993	Biology

RESEARCH EXPERIENCE: Conducting with present position, list in chronological order previous employment, experience, and training. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key personnel typically will include all individuals with doctoral degrees; others may be included based on their substantial role in the project. Include participant organizations and Federal Government public advisory committees.  Note particular/relevant publications pertinent to this time. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Electron Microscopy
Research Experience (1990-present) Experience in negative staining and the preparation
of tissue for sectioning, viewing, and photographic development of the negatives and prints.
Data Analysis (1990-present) Quantitative morphological analysis. Included digitizing,
point counting and other measurements. Experience with the design and implementation of
experiments and various analysis tools.
Tissue Culture (1991-present) Routine maintenance of cell lines without contamination.
Molecular Biology (1995- present) Including routine subcloning, DNA preparation, restriction
analysis, sequencing, and library screening.
Cell Biology (1995- present) Immunocytochemical staining of Drosophila tissues followed by
light microscopy with digital imaging and analysis.

Professional Experience:
Research Assistant (1990-92) with Dr. L. YasuI, Northern Illinois University, Dekalb, IL. Cell
survival experiments, electron microscopy
Research Technologist (1992-94) Chief Virology Technician at the Pennsylvania State
University Animal Diagnostic Laboratory.
Research Assistant (1994-present), half time) with Dr. G. Chihr, Department of Biology, The
Pennsylvania State University, PA.
Researcher Assistant (1995- present), half time) with Dr. N. Thomas, Department of Biology, The
Pennsylvania State University, PA.

Awards:
Memorial S&J/DR 2% Merit Scholarship 1987
Northern Illinois University Graduate Student Research Grant 1993
Pennsylvania State University Presidential Fellowship 1994-1995
Publication:
Korte, C.C., and L. YasuI. 1992. Effects of hyperoxia on cultured rat hippocampal neurons. J. Neurotrauma 9: 371-380.

References: Available upon request.



