CURRICULUM VITAE

Prof. Hanna Engelberg-Kulka
Born in Vienna, Austria, on 15.8.1932

Studies:
1952-58 Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel. Degree-M.Sc.
1964 Hebrew University, Jerusalem Medical School. Degree-Ph.D., on the
subject: "Studies on streptomycin-dependent bacteria."

Professional Experience:
1994 - Chairman, Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Microbiology,
Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel
1985 - Professor, Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Microbiology, Hebrew
University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem. Israel
1978-85 Associate Professor, Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Microbiology,
Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.
1972-78 Senior Lecturer, Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Microbiology,
Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel
1972-73 On Sabbatical leave as a recipient of an Eleanor Roosevelt Fellowship of the
International Union Against Cancer in the Department of Molecular Biology,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
1968-72 Lecturer, Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Microbiology, Hebrew
University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.
1963-67 Instructor, Department of Bacteriology, Hebrew University- Hadassah Medical
School, Jerusalem, Israel.

Teaching:
1965-95 Courses (lectures, seminars and laboratories) in Molecular Biology for B.Sc. M.Sc.
and Ph.D. students.

Research:
1978 - REGULATORY MECHANISMS OF GENE EXPRESSION:
present 1. The control of nonsense suppression by E. coli ribosomes.
2. E. coli mutations affecting nonsense suppression.
3. Codon context effects.
4. UGA readthrough as a regulatory mechanism of gene expression in:
a. E. coli trp operon
i. trp attenuation
ii. Regulation of the synthesis of the tryptophan repressor
b. RNA phage Qß, filamentous phages and phage λ.
5. The mechanisms of translational readthrough and frameshifting; their
implications in cell biology.
6. Alternatives in reading the universal genetic code.
7. Translational introns as a regulatory element of gene expression.
8. Protein degradation and antifragmentation.
9. Programmed cell death and aneadath in a bacterial culture

APPLICATIVE RESEARCH:
10. Development of a simple assay for selenium determination using
11. Engineering of relation to contain enzymes.
12. Improvement in procedure for purifying nucleotide sugars.
13. Construction of a synthetic system to deliver DNA into cells.
14. Registry of orphan proteins.

Publications: See attached list.