RAISIN CONCENTRATE

TERMINOLOGY:

Raisin concentrate is the name given to the pure concentrated extract of raisins prepared by leaching the raisins with water. The leaching process is undertaken in several stages to produce raisin juice. The liquid is then processed in a vacuum pan, where the excess water is evaporated to obtain a desired 70° brix concentration or 70% natural fruit soluble solids.

SOURCES:

The major area of production of raisins is California but Australia and certain areas of the Middle East are also producers. Fatty acid esters have been used for many years in Australia and the Middle East to reduce the drying time of the grapes (1). This shorter drying time is caused by the interaction of esters in the dip with the waxy surface of the grapes to increase the rate of water loss during drying. In contrast, most California raisins are sun dried without the use of a drying aid, which results in a raisin with a blue-black color, darker than that of Australian raisins.

Raisin concentrate is manufactured from two different types of raisins, Thompson seedless and Muscats. Each type of concentrate has its own distinctive flavor differing chemically in pH due to the amount of tartaric acid present (2). The range of tartaric acid in the Thompson seedless concentrate is 1.5-2.0% giving it a pH range of 3.0-3.5. The Muscat concentrate has a concentration range of 0.7-9.0% tartaric acid with a pH of 4.0-4.5.

USAGE:

Raisin concentrate is used in the commercial bakery production of breads as an anti-stalling agent, a natural coloring agent, and as a substitute for sucrose, refiners syrup, and molasses in flavoring and sweetening. The two major sugars found in raisin concentrate are fructose and glucose, found in nearly equal amounts (3). Because raisin concentrate has no sucrose content and is a source of natural brown color, it also has applications in the manufacture of natural and healthfood goods. Raisin concentrate is also used as a flavor and humidifying agent for aromatic tobaccos. It can be found in chewing to bacco at a level of approximately 3% and in cigarettes at 0.25-1.0% of the casing contents.



039-15865