COMMENTS ON

CANCER OF THE GENITO-URINARY TRACT

Since a statistical relationship between smoking and the incidence of cancer in these organ systems has been reported, some brief comments are being submitted. The biochemical metabolic factors that have been extensively studied and shown to be implicated by experimental and clinical research will not be discussed in detail but the appended bibliography will list some of the more recent and pertinent papers in these areas.

BLADDER CANCER

This is a relatively uncommon disease in humans but several reports suggest that its incidence has risen in recent years, at least among males. According to Clemmesen,(1,2,3,4) incidence has risen rapidly than mortality since a significant number of cures are effected. In Denmark, the rise was greater in Copenhagen than in rural areas.(1) In most areas only mortality figures are available.

Many cases of bladder cancer, as is well known,(5,6) have been traced to specific industrial exposures to beta-naphthylamine, benzidine, o-toluidine, auramine, magenta and other related substances. The activity of these substances in producing bladder tumors specifically has given rise to the speculation that many other related compounds may have similar capabilities to greater or less degree. Also since direct industrial exposures have been so clearly related to occurrence of many bladder cancers, it has naturally been speculated that there may be other cases,(5,6) not strictly industrial, which owe their origin to less readily apprehended environmental exposures to substances of these types or classes.

Two points from the epidemiological studies will be commented upon here.
First, the incidence of and mortality from bladder cancer are much greater among males than among females.

The second point is that several epidemiological studies have reported a statistical association between heavy or long-time smoking,(7,8,9,10) a particularly cigarette has been reported between smoking and bladder cancer in women.

If this sex difference cannot be accounted for by the greater environmental exposure of men to the presently known specific bladder carcinogen or others that may be identified, it may signify a real sex difference in susceptibility.

Reports of bladder cancer morbidity in New York(11) and Connecticut(12) are in accordance with the reports from Denmark.(1,2,3,4)