ATTACHMENT A

Performance of Barclay Cigarettes
with Filter Grooves Blocked

An experiment has been performed to determine the variation
in ventilation level and smoke delivery of the Barclay cigarette
as a function of the number of filter grooves blocked. The
Barclay filter relies exclusively on peripheral air channel
grooves to provide a high level of ventilation. It has been
shown that the lips of the smoker interact with filter grooves
and thus diminish the ventilation level and the "tar"
delivered. The present experiment was designed to show the extent
of ventilation decrease and “tar” increase as a function of filter
groove blockage.

Barclay cigarettes (85 mm. soft pack) were prepared by block-
ing 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4 of the filter groove openings with tipping
glue. The glue was carefully applied such that a minimal amount
of tow was contacted. After blocking the filter grooves, samples
of the prepared cigarettes were submitted to the R&D Analytical
Services Division for routine smoke analyses under standard FTC
smoking conditions. Pressure drop and air dilution measurements
were also performed. The results of these analyses are summarized
in Table 1.

As the results summarized in Table I show, smoke component
deliveries increased dramatically with the number of filter grooves
blocked. The FTC “tar” delivery increased from 1.8 mg/cigt. with
no grooves blocked to 11.7 mg./cigt. with all four grooves glued
shut. Other measured smoke component deliveries as well as cig-
arette draft (DHO) increased as well. Air dilution levels
decreased from 67.0% with no grooves blocked to 11.9% with four
grooves blocked (Table I). FTC “tar,” carbon monoxide (CO),
cigarette draft (DHO) and air dilution were found to vary exponent-
ially with the number of filter grooves blocked (Figures 1, 2,
4, respectively). Linear regression coefficients for these models
are summarized in Table II.

The results of the experiment show that as the Barclay filter
grooves are closed off, the level of ventilation decreases sub-
stantially. As a consequence, FTC “tar” and other smoke component
(e.g., entrained CO, cigarette dilutions) increase exponentially.
Mathematical models for these relationships between number of
filter groove measurements can be used to characterize the influence
subsequently closed during human smoking of the Barclay. In a
simulation using the FTC filtered report test, it is possible to
reproduce the tar, CO, tip HPA and draft patterns observed in
the actual sample of cigarettes with dilution blocked to 11.9%

2023089685