CHARGE NUMBER: 4009

PROJECT TITLE: Paper and Filler Modification

PROJECT LEADER: W. A. Geiszler

PERIOD COVERED: June, 1976

I. PAPER ADDITIVES

Dark brown wrapper cigarettes have been made using humic acid. The CO delivery if these 120 mm models is in the 21-24 mg range. These cigarettes will be tested against a comparable employing Schweitzer’s brown Malaucene paper.¹

Investigations into the chemical properties of humic acid are continuing. As a result of extraction studies, separation of the humic acid constituents (fulvic acid (acid and base soluble fractions) and humin (acid and base insoluble fractions) from true humic acid, is being attempted through extractive washing at controlled pH. Both fulvic acid and humin sodium salts are suspected causes of high CO delivery from brown coated papers.² Another method of reducing CO delivery, by washing sodium from the paper, has shown significant reductions in made cigarettes. A continuous washing process is being developed so that machine made cigarettes can be constructed. ³

Al₂(SO₄)₃ has been compared with CaCl₂ and MgSO₄ as a salt post-treatment on brown wrapper cigarettes. All samples gave higher CO deliveries than the untreated control (an artifact of the relatively lower deliveries of the present brown wrapper cigarettes). Al₂(SO₄)₃ gave higher CO deliveries than MgSO₄ or CaCl₂.⁴

Work continues on ammonium salts applied to cigarette wrappers. Most of these salts yield a black ash. Calcium phosphate gives similar puff counts to ammonium phosphate, as well as good ash appearance.⁵

Samples of ashless papers have been requested from Schweitzer. These papers will be tested for gas deliveries.

II. MENTHOL CIGARETTES

Menthol applied to package foil has given some interest-ing results in terms of migration rate and transfer to smoke. Within a week, 13% of the menthol moved from the foil to the cigarettes and smoke versus 12-14% for conventional cigarettes delivered to over 20 ashless under converging aging studies, as were the menthol cigarettes now undergoing aging studies; cig-arette.⁶