PROJECT NUMBER: 4009
PROJECT TITLE: Development Smoke Studies
PROJECT LEADER: B. L. Goodman
PERIOD COVERED: September, 1989

I. REDUCED SIDESTREAM CIGARRETTES:

A. Objective: Develop subjectively acceptable cigarettes with reduced sidestream visibility.

B. Status:

Trim V: Additional production Superalims were monitored for sidestream visibility on the 8-port equipment. The cigarettes gave reductions in the 72-79 %.

The alternate source of CaCO, for Kimberly-Clark has not yet been qualified due to a significant subjective difference from the current control on regular circumference cigarettes. The difference is most likely due to the permeability differences of the two papers and the difference in MAP additive level. Another sample with a better porosity hash has been requested from K-C, and will be tested on cigarettes to be made in Louisville.

Cigarettes with a circumference of 19.5 mm were made in Semiworks with flavor coatings on the outer wrap or in the sidestream adhesive. There was no change in sidestream visibility with the added flavor; both versions giving 70% reduction. Subjective evaluations showed the double wrap system with the Trim V blend to be less preferred with Aromatek 245 on the outer wrap.

The double wrapped 19.5 mm cigarettes were also compared subjectively at two tar levels (6mg and 8mg). With the Trim V blend and standard double wrap, the Low Sidestream panel judged the 6mg version as less harsh and cleaner. An additional model will be made with an innerliner coated with 6% potassium phosphate for potentially better subjective response than the previous model with 10% additive.

Lotus: Subjective evaluations were made by the Low Sidestream panel on 24.8 mm circumference cigarettes with different fluxing agents and base sheet fillers. Potassium carbonate as the fluxing agent was found to be preferred only at a low level, where the visibility reduction was insufficient (60%). Magnesium carbonate with sodium succinate at the fluxing agent was found to be equally acceptable to the K-C double wrap system. Additional work with this filler is being pursued with Sciencor.

An investigation was initiated with Trinity Research of the effect of lever type fluxing agents. The 45 mg Kimberly-Clark outer and two tar “Trim” additives were used, with coatings of five percent monobasic potassium phosphate, di-un-trified phosphoric acid, and as an additive in the pH range of 7 to 8.

2022102620