CHARGE NUMBER: 4009

PROJECT TITLE: Paper and Filler Modification

PROJECT LEADER: W. A. Geiszler

PERIOD COVERED: October, 1975

I. PAPER ADDITIVES

Brown cigarette papers colored with humic acid and post-treated with various salts for color fastness are being tested for CO delivery. It has been observed on cigarettes with humic acid coated paper that the paper burns slower than the tobacco during the interval between puffs. Conventional white cigarette papers burn at the same rate as the tobacco. The higher CO delivery of the brown cigarettes could be due to a shielding of the coal by the brown paper.¹

A copper-containing water-soluble chlorophyll appears at this time to be the best coloring agent for a green cigarette paper. Smoke delivery and color forming characteristics are being determined for different chlorophyll levels on the paper.²

SEF panelists were unable to detect any contribution to sidestream aroma from chocolate flavor applied to the paper. No further testing of the chocolate-treated paper is planned.

A rotogravure printing machine has been installed and debugged. With this machine, cigarette paper can be printed in a registered pattern to give, for instance, a special flavor on only the last few puffs.

II. FILLER ADDITIVES

A cigarette model containing 40% ET and 1.2% DAP in the filler has given the same puff count as the Marlboro-like control. Cigarettes will now be made for RP³ testing.

III. ENCAPSULATED FLAVORS

Kluel has been tested as a binding agent for spraying encapsulated menthol on filler. About 30% of the menthol is lost during cigarette making, indicating Kluel is not a satisfactory binding agent.³ The pneumatic system for adding capsules to the cigarette on the maker has not been tested yet.

IV. FILTER DILUTION VIA POROUS TIPPING

A filter dilution level of 20% was achieved by ring tipping a filter with porous cork plug wrap to the tobacco using non-porous ring tip, the cigarette extinguishes without burning into the filter.



2022030569