PROJECT NUMBER: 0008
PROJECT TITLE: Computer Applications/General Support
PROJECT LEADER: G. D. Davis
PERIOD COVERED: March 15 - April 19, 1988

Library Palantir/Fulcrum Test

B. Objective: To develop a working understanding of the Palantir scanner
and the Fulcrum Fultext database; to create a Fultext collection for
user testing utilizing data captured through the Palantir scanner.

B. Results: A total of 18 user specified files were entered into the
system using the Palantir Scanner. Two of these files were unable to be
scanned due to smearing of the paper print. All the files were
created from articles found in newspapers or magazines. Overall, the
Palantir did an excellent job of scanning this data in. It did prove
to be fairly time consuming though due to the Palantir user being a novice
and the data was being derived from newspaper print.

Fulcrum was used to create a fultext database collection. It had no
apparent problems with any of the files referenced. The created
database and profile were brought to the library. The necessary
environment variables and path names were added to the .logins to access
fultext. A demonstration/training session was held with Charity
McDonald to introduce her to the basic commands, menus and terminology
needed to use Fulcrum.

C. Conclusions: The Library’s initial reaction to the fultext database
seemed very positive. They were particularly impressed with the general
flow of the menus and ease of use. It was determined that the Palantir
scanner could not be used to enter into the system data that was
generated before January of this year. Prior to this time the method of
storing data was an unconcerned cut and paste process that created
shadows, lines and severe skewing of the file making it impossible for
any scanner to read. However, due to improvements in this method used
to store data, the Palantir scanner will be used from this date on to
scan data into the system.

D. Plans: To remain accessible to the library users as they continue to
need the Fulcrum database to answer questions or give support in anyway
needed. To continue expanding the current knowledge base and the Fulcrum
database for the Library current. At CAD, at that time we will
have the opportunity to meet with them again. Screens and develop files
which they want to ask questions or user requirements.

2021-07-19 
20210719



                                      78