PROJECT CHARGE: 1704

PROJECT TITLE: SUPERCRITICAL FLUID PROCESSES

PROJECT LEADER: F. V. Utsch

WRITTEN BY: J. L. Banyasz

PERIOD COVERED: July, 1986

DATE OF REPORT: August 1, 1986

SCF Laboratory Systems:

Efforts to optimize the tobacco:CO₂:carbon ratios in the one liter
system were continued.

Further analysis of the data for nicotine solubility in supercritical
CO₂ over tobacco suggests the equilibrium between tobacco bound and fluid
phase nicotine can be described by a single distribution coefficient.
Further data is needed to quantify the distribution.

A Marlboro blend was treated with 3% NH₄HCO₃ and extracted in the one
liter system. A 97% reduction in nicotine was obtained as compared to a 93%
reduction observed in a similar extraction with an untreated control.
Additional extraction experiments are required to determine optimum
extraction conditions with NH₄HCO₃ treated tobacco.

Preliminary investigations were initiated to find alternative methods
for nicotine scrubbing. The extraction of 108 grams of tobacco using a
citric acid scrub (200 ml of 2.5% citric solution) yielded an 80% nicotine
reduction after an extraction time of two hours and twenty minutes. A
method for increasing the gas/liquid contact efficiency will be implemented.

SCF Pilot Plant and Engineering Support:

On request from Engineering, experiments were carried out to determine
the concentration of chlorides lost in the fluid phase and in the tobacco
moisture which may come in contact with the vessel walls. The fluid phase
was found to contain 2-3 ppm chloride while the pressed tobacco moisture
contained a substantial but unquantified amount.

Also, on request from Engineering, an attempt was made by Bruce Waymack
to simulate low temperature in situ regeneration of spent carbon from the
laboratory unit by heating under helium at 300°C for 90 minutes.
Absorption isotherms were then determined for heat treated carbon. It
was found to have a capacity of 40-60% as compared to fresh carbon.



J. L. Banyasz