MAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS---6908----AUGUST, 1988

A. H. Warfield

TSNA Removal: A study was completed on the use of hexane/ethanol mixtures
to extract burley filler, with removal of TSNA and alkaloids from the
solvent stream by passage through Amberlyst 15 strong cation exchange resin
in a recycling, self-contained process. Variables studied were flow rate,
total solvent volume passed relative to tobacco bed volume, temperature, &
ethanol/amount of resin. Conditions were optimized to yield the
following % removal on a dry weight basis: dry weight (93), NNN (98%), NAT
(98%), NNK (100%), nicotine (99.5%), anatabine (66%), anabasine (64%) and
norcotinine (68%).

Low Activity Model: Method development for measurement of MS NO levels was
completed. Several parameters were modified, including use of pH 3.5
sulfuric acid, Rite-Aid hydrogen peroxide, and a blank. Values are now
very similar to literature values for the cigarettes measured. Applications
will start shortly. Spraying of 2% ascorbyl palmitate, squalene, and
neophytadiene as possible NO scrubbers on filters will be evaluated.

Art Samples: Carbon that is subjected to the ART process during a run
designed to simulate an abort analysis for TSNA. A sample of this
carbon was also heated under conditions shown earlier to destroy TSNA. The
TSNA was all destroyed, with 1.8 ng/g of each TSM/g of carbon which
distilled into the liquid fraction, representing 95-96% destruction of
TSNA. No TSNA was detected in the carbon after treatment.

Water samples decreased as a function of time. NNN and NNK levels in
the water samples decreased as a function of time, but NAT levels increased,
indicating that there was a difference in partition coefficients leading to
this behavior.

Samples from an experimental ART program designed to determine suitable
conditions for SCFE extraction of norcotinine from toner were analyzed for
minor alkaloids. It was necessary to improve the HPLC analysis procedure
in order to analyze these samples. Attempts were made to incorporate 13C-
labeled nicotine in order to measure recoveries. However, this was not
possible due to interference from a component (presumably chlorophyll) which
was extracted in the process. Recoveries were shown to be very high by
other methods, and this step was eliminated.

20245177