CADMIUM

The Interest

Cadmium has recently become the subject of an EEC Council Regulation (1) subsequent to the publication of the Commission’s proposed action programme aimed at combating environmental pollution by cadmium (la) which subtly talked of a cadmium ‘time bomb’ but did not specifically mention tobacco. The part of the regulation relating to tobacco stresses that “the major elements of strategy for cadmium control... should be ... stimulation of research and development... of varieties of tobacco... with a lower cadmium content” (18).

Although a 1980 UK government document (2) emphasised the need to keep cadmium exposure as low as possible, to date Denmark has been the EC country spearheading concern over this issue, following Swedish precedent. On 1st January 1984, a regulation (3) came into force in Denmark prohibiting the manufacture and importation of products containing cadmium. But this referred only to products in which cadmium is used as a surface treatment, colouring pigment or plastic stabiliser making up more than 75 parts per million (ppm) in the homogeneous components of the product, and there was a list of products which could continue to be imported. Nevertheless, the Commission considered that this “can constitute a significant barrier to intra-Community trade” (la) and it prompted Lord Cockfield to comment (4) that the Danish ban on cadmium out of step with the general Community approach to the prevention of heavy metal pollution. He reported (4) that the Commission would be drawing up a plan of action for an overall reduction of cadmium pollution, of which their above regulation is presumably the outcome.

Also in 1980, a report (5) had apparently been prepared for the EC Commission in which with cadmium concentrations in tobacco leaf had been collated. However, this report is proving elusive and the London Information Office for the EC Commission claims to have no record of it.

Recently, the UK Government’s Health and Safety Executive published a leaflet (6) stating three ways in which cadmium gets into the body, viz “mainly by breathing in dust or fumes, also by eating foods contaminated with cadmium dust, and from smoking cigarettes”.

The new California Proposition 65, which came into force on 1st March, includes cadmium and regulation empowers under its list of designated carcinogens for which regulatory warning labels are required, up to one microgram of cadmium per day is considered as present in significant risk by routes other than ingestion and therefore requires a warning label (7).

References
1. COM(83) 569 final.
2. Department of Health and Social Security. Cadmium and health: a discussion document. London, HMSO, 1980.
3. Danish Statutory Order No 438 of 2nd June 1984.
4. Hansard, House of Commons Debates, 26th October 1984, col. 795.
5. Report to the Commission on cadmium in tobacco. Brussels, 1980.
6. Health and Safety Executive. Cadmium: health hazards. London, HMSO, 1985.
7. California Proposition 65 warning.



2023060706