CANADIAN STUDIES ATTEMPTING A LESS HARMFUL CIGARETTE

by H.L. Cherry and W.R. Kerbes

Department of Statistics, University of Waterloo
Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

This paper describes studies carried out at the University of
Waterloo, Ontario, Canada in conjunction with the Smoking and Health Program
of the Canadian Department of National Health and Welfare. It represents
only one of numerous programs on Smoking and Health supported by the Canadian
Government. There are three components to the work at Waterloo: first, the
surveillance of tar and nicotine levels of cigarettes sold in Canada; second,
an investigation of the intake of harmful substances present in tobacco smoke;
and third, various statistical studies related to smoking habits. Most of the
investigations described were carried out under the supervision of Dr. V.S.
Rickert, Dr. J.C. Robinson and the authors.

I. THE SURVEILLANCE OF TAR AND NICOTINE LEVELS IN CANADIAN CIGARETTES

The aim of the surveillance studies is to provide the Canadian
smoker with readily accessible information about tar and nicotine levels in
cigarettes. In addition, the studies appear to have had some influence on
the industry, in that some Canadian cigarettes now have lower tar and nicotine
levels than before the surveillance studies began, and these cigarettes,
therefore, can be expected to be less harmful. In addition, the results have
confirmed both that it is practicable for the Industry to produce cigarettes
within a wide range of tar and nicotine delivery and also, that the tar and
nicotine levels of individual brands can be controlled within narrow limits.

The surveillance is carried out bi-annually and the results are
published by the Department of National Health and Welfare. Cigarettes are
collected from retailers across Canada, to ensure that measurements reflect
the tar and nicotine levels of cigarettes as actually available to the
consumer.

The methodology employed for determining tar and nicotine levels
is basically that described by Ogg (1). However, the tar data were determined
and published (2) as not rather than dry wt. It has also been shown (2) that
there are no significant differences between tar and nicotine contents of
cigarettes sold under one brand name in different parts of the country. Con-
sequently, for each brand, cigarettes sold appear to be similar throughout
Canada.

Discussions have taken place in Canada with representatives of
appropriately prepared legislation would lead to a specifically permitted limits
University, prosecution, which would cause less harmful consumption.