FEB 6 1986

ACS Release Of Preliminary Findings AMERICAN
CANCER
SOCIETY
OR Cancer Prevention Study II

R.T.A. RAGES Cancer Society’s Cancer Prevention Study began in
September 1982 when 77,000 volunteers in every state, the District
of Columbia and Puerto Rico enrolled 1,200,000 persons in a long-
term prospective study. The participants completed a four-page con-
fidential questionnaire on habits, exposures, history of diseases &
etc. The plan was to have the volunteers report each year on the
vital status of each of the persons enrolled. For those reported
dead, death certificates are obtained from state health departments,
and analysis be cause of death made in relation to the replies on
the questionnaire.

The first follow-up began in September 1984 and is virtually complete.
Those Divisions of the Society that have completed their work have
traced more than 99% of the persons enrolled.

Even before deaths were reported we were able to make some analysis
in relation to smoking. Smoking habits, among the subjects in the
study were compared to those of persons similar in age and socio-
economic status who were enrolled in our first prospective study,
CPS I, in 1959. Massive changes appeared. In CPS I, forty
percent of the men had quit cigarette smoking, more than twice the
proportion who reported they had quit in the earlier study (seventeen
percent). Only twenty-six percent of men were still smoking. Among
women, fewer had never smoked (fifty-six percent versus sixty-seven
percent) but fewer were current smokers (twenty-one percent versus
twenty-seven percent) and nearly four times as many had quit smoking
(twenty-two percent versus six percent). Further analysis shows
tremendous shifts in smoking toward lower tar/nicotine cigarettes.
Sixty-six percent of men and seventy-nine percent of women reported
they smoked cigarettes with <16 mg. tar. Men and women who smoked very
low/tar cigarettes tended to smoke more heavily but not enough
to compensate for the difference in tar content. We found no evidence,
as is sometimes alleged, that low/tar nicotine cigarette smokers
tend to inhale more deeply than those who smoke higher yield cigar-
ettes.

It is difficult to most epidemiological studies of diet to relate
single food items and cancer for consumptions. The Cancer Prevention
Study II seeks in this respect to collect data on fruits, vegetables
and vegetables, if we do it correctly, as a policy, not by asking
about specific items such as “apples” or “spinach,” but rather by
asking about the frequency of consumption of general categories such
as fresh fruits, canned fruits, fresh vegetables, frozen vegetables,
juices, etc.

The data on diet in CPS II are still being processed and analyzed.
However, some preliminary findings are available.

2025-013



                                      Page 2