RESEARCH PROPOSAL

Title of Project: Determination of Personal Exposures to Environmental Tobacco Smoke on Mainland Europe.

1 ABSTRACT

We propose to investigate typical personal exposures to Environmental Tobacco Smoke, ETS, in non-smokers across Europe. A variety of inter-related measurements will be made. In the ETS particle phase they will be respirable suspended particulates (RSP), UV absorbing particulate matter, fluorescing particulate matter and Solanesol, a tobacco specific marker. In the ETS vapour phase nicotine and 3-ethylpyridine will be measured. Cotinine levels will be established by analysis of saliva. Questionnaires involving some lifestyle information will be included. The main reason for these investigations is to determine the level and range of exposure to ETS in a number of european cities. The results of this work will contribute significant new data on ETS exposure in Europe.

By providing key comparative indices the resulting data base will contribute to a more complete interpretation of a variety of studies, such as those conducted by the International Agency for Research into Cancer, IARC.

The intention is to compare and contrast ETS exposure in each country and assess the magnitude of this exposure in the workplace at home and in total.

Also other airborne contaminants will be measured such as nitrogen, sulphur oxides particulates, and CO in the vicinity of 25 volunteers in each of the cities. These will be stationary monitors.

The study would use 240 randomly selected non-smokers. Each subject would be investigated for ETS exposure over a 24 hour period. Separately, but in the same time frame a misclassification study will also be conducted in each country. The studies will be performed using 200 subjects who will be questioned and have their saliva cotinine levels measured. This study will establish a misclassification rate by country for smokers who claim they are non-smokers and vice-versa.

2 STUDY OBJECTIVES

a To determine in non-smoking Europeans, in each city, the range and median of 24 hour exposure to nicotine and to ETS related particulates.

b To compare and contrast the levels of ETS exposure in each city.

c To assess the magnitude of exposure in the workplace, the home and in total.

d To establish misclassification rates for each city.



20231373