M/C Burley Dryer #4
Double Rate-Subjective Qualification Test Plan

OBJECTIVE

Determine subjective qualification of operating the new burley dryer #4 at double flow rate.

BACKGROUND

Replacement of the three remaining burley dryers at the M/C will require an 8 week period down time for each dryer. To maintain production capacity without incurring significant overtime operating charges, running the new dryer at double production rate would allow full line production capacity to be achieved. Marlboro has is the basis for speed up and subjective qualification.

The new burley dryer #4 was subjectively qualified and approved for production on September 16, 1991. The new dryer has larger drying and reorienting sections that has decreased temperatures needed to reach drying targets at normal production. We feel the new dryer has capacity to operate acceptably at double rate production.

Testing in August 1990 confirmed that only the Burley dryer #3 is not capable of operating acceptably at double rate. The old Burley dryers are unable could we achieve target drying moisture. We were limited in drying area and steam capacity. From this testing, however, we did determine that a 50% increase in apron speed through the dryer with double flowrate has the greatest chance of subjective acceptance. The new Burley dryer #4 has both greater drying area and steam capacity than the old dryers.

STRATEGY

The test is designed to dry and reorder Burley tobacco to target conditions at double production flow rate. Higher rates will be achieved by increasing the belt speed through the dryer and increasing drying zone temperatures. From previous testing on the old burley dryer #3, we feel that increasing the main apron speed by 50%, thus increasing the carpet depth has the greatest chance of subjective acceptance. This condition would require lower drying temperatures at a full 100% increase in apron speed. A control run will be made at normal production operating conditions with both dryers #3 and #4 running. In addition, 250 pounds of burley from the dryers will be collected to produce 100% burley cigarettes at the RBD Semi-works.

PROCESS DESCRIPTION

Burley strip is blended and stored in the Burley piles. The blended Burley strip is discharged from these silos and fed at a controlled rate to the Burley dryer. Straws are upward facing at the apron feeder on cylinder. The flavorings, strips and conveyor belt cling to the strip in this manner and are distributed by flow to the dryer. The strip then enters the Burley dryer through distribution rolls and two reorienting zones on the pile of the drying zone, a continuous area to 165°F.

20546565

Typically, the flavored strips are reoriented and dried under controlled conditions. The dried strips are then conveyed to the reorder section where they are reordered into a continuous rope of strip.



