MONTHLY SUMMARY

25 JANUARY 1986-
24 FEBRUARY 1986

FOR: David Douglas

1. Non-burning smoking article:

Additional work on this subject was done this month by examining the smoking effect of a cellulose acetate filter versus no filter. The sample examined was an IF tobacco neutral fraction flavor. Fifty microliters of the sample were applied to a piece of filter paper inside a plasticette before those samples’s Flavors were subjected for the burning smoking article. Thirty-five ml puffs were withdrawn alternately at one end containing a CA filter and at the other end, which was open. The results of chromatograms produced by samples taken in these ways showed that the later, more polar, less volatile components are reduced disproportionately when puffed through the CA filter compared to a sample taken with no filter. This observation could have implications for the use of tobacco-identical flavors in both burning and non-burning smoking products, since this flavor is apparently natural and therefore representative of tobacco-identical flavors.

No additional work is anticipated in this area unless it is desired by supervisors of the Chemical Research Division, as an aid to Divisional goals or major R&D programs. However, a memo summarizing the observations made to date is being written.

2. Setup of an electron capture detector:

Some additional work with the ED (discussed last month) was done, mostly to document the work on the PC data system. However in the course of this work the lower limits of detectability of Lindane and Aldrin were explored and more definitively determined. It was found that approximately 300-400 fentograms (10^-13 grams) of either pesticide could be detected at a 2:1 signal to noise ratio, but about half this amount could not. A minimum of 15 picograms of each of the acaricides were detected in 3 microliters of a bright tobacco extract. The purity of the concentration of the pesticide standard used was verified with a completely separate standard of Lindane and the amounts from each source were found to be equal within normal experimental variability.

A memo concerning this work is being written, and no further work will be done in this area unless a need arises.



2051028324