CHARGE NUMBER: 1754 DATE: October 1, 1982

PROGRAM TITLE: Spectroscopic Studies of Tobacco and Smoke Components

PROJECT LEADER: R. H. Cox

WRITTEN BY: W. N. Einolf

PERIOD COVERED: September, 1982

I. Mass Spectrometry

A sample of cooked flavor extract from Switzerland was analyzed
by GC/MS, resulting in the identification of 16 compounds: 14 alkyl
pyrazines, an oxygenated substituted pyrazine, and an internal standard
(McCourt, Howe, Houminer) and added to our data bases.

Samples of glycosylamine, galactosyiamine and the Amadori compound
1-deoxy-prolino-fructose were analyzed for S. Haut by DCI using ammonia
as reagent gas. The glycosylamine clearly showed a M+H adduct ion,
but the galactosylamine did not. This behavior reflects the relative
thermal stabilities of these compounds.

The growth phase of the sucrose tetraester (STE) study was completed
with receipt of the final air-cured burley sample. Analysis of all
extracts by DCI should be complete by next month.

A paper was presented by W. N. Einolf at the 9th International Mass
Spectrometry Conference titled "Analysis of carbohydrates by chemical
ionization mass spectrometry." A manuscript of the paper will appear
in a volume of the International Journal of Mass Spectrometry and Ion
Physics.

A paper was reviewed by W. N. Einolf for the journal Biomedical
Mass Spectrometry.

II. NMR Spectroscopy

Proton and carbon-13 NMR spectra have been run and analyzed for
glycosylamine (1-amino-1-deoxyglucose, CR-1667) and diglycosylamine
prepared by S. Haut. The glycosylamine is identical to the product
formed by reacting glucose and ammonium hydroxide in aqueous solution (2).
The proton NMR spectra of galactosyiamine, mannosylamine, and rhamnosylamine
confirm that the single isomer is present (1) and prepared by heating an
aqueous solution of sugar and ammonia and analysis of the proton-proton
coupling constant data suggest that it is the beta isomer in each case.

Initial experiments were conducted where glucose was heated with
DAP in aqueous solution. The carbon-13 NMR spectra as a function of
heating time show a small buildup of an intermediate (0-10 min at 93°C)
which decomposes with further heating. During this time, the color
of the solution changes as follows: clear-yellow-brown-black.
Comparison of the position of the new planes on the spectra with those of
shifts of reference compounds suggests that the intermediate may consist
of diglycosylamine. Further study is required.

2053718587