17/06 '98 13:00 FAX 41 38 32 77 76

j&j Neuchatel      New Draft     @005

Bullet Points Dealing with Asthma

General

There is little doubt that the prevalence of asthma has increased significantly over the past 20 years in the industrialized nations – particularly the United States, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and Australia. Some authors have labelled this increase in prevalence an asthma epidemic. The fact that the timing of this increase corresponds exactly with a concurrent decline in smoking as well as a rapid growth of public smoking restrictions in those same countries indicates that asthma has been increasing with exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) has been sharply decreasing. This inverse correlation strongly suggests that public health officials and researchers who are concerned with the current asthma situation in industrialized countries should focus their attention on exposures unrelated to ETS.

Adult Asthma

It Is Quite Unlikely that ETS Could Cause Asthma

Asthma is a multi-factorial condition characterized by airway hyper responsiveness which in most cases (75-85%) is caused by any one of a number of external immunogenic (allergenic) substances. This definition, however, is operational in nature and there is no clear cut or agreed upon medical definition of asthma. It should be particularly stressed that not all clinical presentations of airway hyper reactivity can be classified as asthma. Some well documented examples of immunogenic substances which have been implicated as a cause of asthma are animal dander, insects, and pollen. Repeated research has shown that tobacco smoke is not immunogenic, and therefore, it is quite unlikely that tobacco smoke can cause asthma.

ETS and the Exacerbation of Asthma

A number of exposure studies - wherein asthmatics have been exposed to generally unrealistically high levels of ETS - have given inconsistent results. Even asthmatics claiming to be “sensitive” to tobacco smoke have often not responded to these high levels of ETS in such studies.

The variability of results obtained in studies of acute ETS (or sidestream) smoke exposure on asthmatics is unexplained. This is partially illustrated by the fact that some of the studies involving the most intense and prolonged exposure to ETS failed to evoke a response.



2065191