FORMATION OF TOBACCO SPECIFIC NITROSAMINES

IN FLUE-CURED TOBACCO

David M. Peele, Marvin G. Riddick, and Mike E. Edwards, R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company, Avoca Division, Merry Hill, NC, 27957; and Jeff S. Gentry
and Timothy B. Nestor, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, NC,
27102.

Summary

Nitration of naturally occurring tobacco alkaloids is commonly accepted as the
mechanism of tobacco specific nitrosamine (TSNA) formation in tobacco. As
minimal-to-no TSNA are present in green tobacco, TSNA formation and
accumulation are generally considered to occur during curing. Most recent
hypotheses focus on microbial reduction of nitrate to nitrite and other oxides of
nitrogen (NOx compounds) that react with tobacco alkaloids to form TSNAs during
curing. This natural microbial process was the prevalent hypothesis for
TSNA formation in cured burley tobacco. However, a second mechanism for the
formation of TSNA, independent of microbial activity, is presented in this work on
flue-cured tobacco.

It is common practice to flue-cure Virginia or blonde tobacco in bulk barns that
incorporate forced air ventilation and temperature control. Modern bulk barns
generally use liquid propane gas (LPG) with direct-fired burners that exhaust
combustion gases directly into the barn where the tobacco is exposed to those
combustion gases. Our studies indicate that LPG combustion by-products,
namely NOx, in the exhaust stream of direct-fired, flue-cured barns react with
naturally occurring tobacco alkaloids to form TSNA. Heat exchange curing
methods preclude exposure of the curing tobacco to combustion gases and by-
products, thereby eliminating this significant source of TSNA formation without
degrading leaf quality or smoking character. Research findings from 1998 and
1999 will be presented to demonstrate the significance of direct-fired curing as a
source of TSNA formation in flue-cured tobacco.

Introduction

For decades, nitrosamines have been a focus of considerable research for
whence references abound in the scientific literature. The presence of
nitrosamines in cigarette smoke and their possible role in tobacco
carcinogenesis were first postulated in the scientific literature in 1962.¹
Extensive research by many investigators since the 1970’s reported the
presence of as many as thirty-five (35) nitrosamines in cigarette smoke. A
subset of those nitrosamines was considered to be specific to tobacco, resulting

207286313