The Form of Nicotine in Tobacco. Thermal Transfer of Nicotine and Nicotine Acid Salts to Nicotine in the Gas Phase

Jay A Fournier,* Jeffrey I. Seeman, and John B. Paine, III
Philip Morris, P. O. Box 26583, Richmond, Virginia 23261

Nicotine is the principal alkaloid in tobacco. In theory, this well known and extremely well studied substance can exist in either its nonprotonated (sometimes referred to as “nicotine base”) or protonated (sometimes referred to as “bound nicotine”) forms in cigarette tobaccos. The paper to be presented at the 216th ACS National Meeting in Boston, Massachusetts on August 23, 1998, strong experimental evidence will be presented which indicates: 1) that nicotine is present primarily in its protonated (“bound”) forms in tobacco and 2) that nonprotonated nicotine and protonated (“bound”) nicotines are likely to transfer nicotine to smoke with comparable yields and efficiencies during the smoking process. Since the model systems of “bound nicotines” used in this study efficiently transfer nicotine to the gaseous vapor state upon heat treatment, this further indicates that "bound nicotine" is not bound under the conditions formed around the coal of a burning cigarette.

In a first set of experiments, samples of nonprotonated and protonated (“bound”) nicotines were heated and analyzed by monitoring weight loss, due to the evolution of gases and vapors, by a technique called thermogravimetry. Simultaneously, the chemical nature of the evolved gases and vapors was monitored using mass spectroscopy. This complement of techniques allows the comparison of the evolution temperatures of nicotine from samples of the nonprotonated and protonated (“bound”) nicotines as well as from tobacco samples. Under the conditions used in this study: 1) nonprotonated nicotine evaporates at a peak temperature of about 110°C to 125°C and 2) the peak evolution temperatures of nicotine from the various protonated (“bound”) nicotines are within the range of 160°C to 220°C. Regarding the form of nicotine in tobacco, experiments on tobacco leaf constituents (Bright, Burley and Oriental tobaccos) show nicotine transfer to

2078569516