BIOASSAYS OF BENZO(a)PYRENE AND LUNG CANCER

Wu Zhong-liang*, Chen Jia-kun*, Zhan Desjiin*, Jin Bo*,
He Ling*, Du Ying-xiao* and Wu Ma**

* Guangzhou Institute for Chemical Carcinogenesis, Guangzhou China
Guangzhou,China
** Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, New York Medical College,
Valhalla, New York, USA

Introduction

Benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P) is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant generated by combustion of substances such as coal, tobacco and other organic chemicals. Possible human exposure occurs through a number of routes including inhalation of polluted atmospheres and cigarette smoke. Epidemiological studies have shown a close relationship between human lung cancer and exposure to B(a)P. B(a)P is a procarcinogen that requires metabolic activation to exert its mutagenic and carcinogenic effects (2, 3). The metabolism of B(a)P has been studied in detail and the mutagenicity of carcinogenicity of B(a)P metabolites have been examined in a variety of prokaryotes, eukaryotes and experimental animals. These studies have shown that the amount and type of metabolic activity for biotransformation of B(a)P differs markedly among species as well as among the tissues of a particular species. Thus, it is difficult to extrapolate the results from animals and cells to the humans because of inter- and intra-species variability. In this study human fetal broncho-epithelial cells (HFBE) cultured in vitro were used as an assay system to investigate the genotoxicity of the metabolites of B(a)P for a better understanding of the role of B(a)P in human lung cancer initiation.

Materials and Methods

Materials

Anti-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxybenzo[a]pyrene (anti-BPDE), syn-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxybenzo[a]pyrene(syn-BPDE), 9-hydroxyenzo(a)pyrene-9-OH-B(a)P), 3-hydroxybenzo[a]pyrene (3-OH-B(a)P) and 7,8-dihydrodiolbenzo[a]pyrene (7,8-diol-B(a)P) were purchased from commercial sources. MCDB 153 medium, restriction enzymes, reagents used for culturing broncho-tracheal epithelial cells and oncogene analysis were obtained from Sigma Chemicals Co. All other reagents were purchased in China.

Cell culture and preparation of liver and lung microsomes

1. Bronchoepithelial cell cultures.

Tracheobronchial tissues from an aborted fetus were cut into small pieces (2x2 mm) and seeded onto cover glasses coated with rat-tail collagen. The cover glasses were placed in six-well plates, Media consisted of MCDB 153 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), 10 mM HEPES, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 1 mM glutamine, and 100 U/ml penicillin G and 100 μg/ml streptomycin. Cultures were incubated in a humidified incubator at 37°C with 5% CO2.

208176318