DRAFT

Breakdown of prospective studies on LRI :

Prospective Studies:

1. The Gambia. (Armstrong and Campbell 1991)

Aims:
To compare carriage on the mother’s back, together with parental smoking
and a number of other factors which might influence incidence or severity of
ALRI to the incidence of clinical and radiological lower respiratory infection
occurring in a rolling cohort of approximately 500 children over a one year
period.

Study group:
Active surveillance programme of pneumonia based in a group of seven
villages within 10-15km of the Medical research council (MRC) field station in
Basse.

Approx 500 children under five were visited weekly and examined for signs of
ALRI.

Rolling cohort design, at the start of the study all children under five years
in the study villages. Children were added to the cohort at birth and dropped
from surveillance when they reached the age of five years.

Total surveillance period = 1year.

Outcome determination:
Cohort visited weekly and examined for signs of ALRI by trained field
workers. Criteria described in previous reference – basically only considered
to represent and ALRI if both clinical and radiological signs were present. X-
rays were independently assessed by two clinical investigators.

ETS exposure:
Number of cigarettes smoked by the father. (N.B. only 3% of the mothers
reported current smoking therefore insufficient data for analysis on mothers
smoking)=F

Other factors:
Two cross-sectional questionnaire surveys recording possible risk factors for
ALRI were carried out, at the beginning and end of the study.

Factors included: Weight for age, Village, SES; Number of wives of father;
Birth order, Number of siblings at school, Number of siblings sharing
bedroom, Months to next oldest child, Age started solids, Health card
(Yes/No); Clinic visits per year; Vitamin A intake; Grass mattress; Carried
regularly on mothers back; Cigarettes father smokes per day.

Results:
75 episodes of ALRI found among 62 children during the year.

LRI prospect 1.doc / 02.12.98 Page 1 of 29