INBiFO Institut für biologische Forschung GmbH - Köln
27 November 2002                                                                 Page 1
_IBRA

DRAFT for discussion

A RISK ASSESSMENT-BASED TOXICOLOGICAL WEIGHTING OF CIGARETTE SMOKE
CONSTITUENTS: C. Euchenhofer, J. Diekmann, B Gerstenberg, R. Stabbert, K. Rustemeier, HJ
Haussmann. INBiFO Institut fuer biologische Forschung (a Philip Morris research lab), Cologne.

Preventive health policies for humans against potential risks from chemicals are based on risk
assessment, which deals with the qualitative classification of substances and/or the quantitative
delineation of risk factors or reference concentrations thereof. To prioritize cigarette smoke
constituents as targets for reduction, we applied the approach outlined in the US EPA
guidelines for the comparative assessment of chemical mixtures (1982) and used published
inhalation unit risks and reference exposure limits, e.g., Cal EPA (2002), for cancer and non-
cancer risk estimates. Smoke constituent yields for the Reference Cigarettes 1R4F and 1R5F
as well as 8 market brands were determined and weighted with the cancer and non-cancer risk
factors. With this model, the ranking of calculated risks suggests that the major risk contribution
comes from only a few gas phase constituents, e.g., 1,3-butadiene and acrylonitrile for cancer
and acrolein for non-cancer. This weighting approach can also be used in the comprehensive
assessment of the smoke chemistry of an electrically heated cigarette with ammonium magnesium phosphate in the overlap. The yields of some
constituents were significantly reduced compared to the 1R4F, while a few were
increased. Application of the weighting approach demonstrated an overall reduction in the
calculated cancer and non-cancer risk estimates for the electrically heated smoking system
compared to the 1R4F. Although this approach is somewhat limited by the uncertainty/lack of
potency data and the inherent limitation of the chemical analysis of complex mixtures such as
cigarette smoke, it can supplement the evidence obtained from experimental toxicological
investigations for the overall evaluation of new cigarette designs.

250364975

X:\HWM\Document Collection No\02\Smoking\Schauels\GOT2003_RISK_ASSESSMENT 30Sep.doc   07/94

DRAFT for discussion