DRAFT R&C BACKGROUND DOCUMENT FOR BOOT AND SHOE MANUFACTURE AND REPAIR—DO NOT QUOTE OR CITE
10/27/98 File#101SRN.101798

Boot and Shoe Manufacture and Repair

The International Agency for Research on Cancer found sufficient evidence that employment in the boot and shoe manufacture and repair industry is carcinogenic to humans (IARC, 1981). The IARC assessment was based on increased risk for nasal adenocarcinomas and other types of nasal cancer in European workers; the risk appeared to be associated primarily with exposure to leather dust. Increased risks were also found for other sites including urinary bladder cancer and leukemia. Although there is little documentation of actual exposures, these risks were ascribed to exposure to benzene and other solvents, dyes, and metallic compounds.

Studies conducted in Europe and published since IARC (1981), including a series of studies based on the Swedish Cancer Environment Registry, have found increased cancer risks at several tissue sites with little confirmation for any individual site. The studies based on the Swedish Cancer Environment Registry all involved employment in 1960 or earlier, although employment may have continued beyond that date. Studies of boot and shoe manufacture and repair in the United States have, with one exception, employed designs which cannot either confirm or rule out the possibility of increased risk. Walker et al. (1993), in a retrospective cohort mortality study of workers employed between 1940 and 1979 in two U.S. shoe factories, found an increased risk for cancer of the trachea, bronchus, and lung (SMR=1.47; 95% CI=1.20-1.80). The risk of lung cancer was reduced, but not eliminated, by indirect adjustment for smoking.

Employment in shoe manufacture and repair has involved exposure to many agents known or reasonably anticipated to be human carcinogens. Some of these agents are no longer permitted to be used in the U.S. industry. Industrial hygiene data describing actual exposures to these agents are minimal. Assessment of hazards associated with employment in the U.S. industry is complicated by the fact that changes in both



83197397