IV. INNATATE VERSUS DEVELOPMENTAL INFLUENCES   #EX936039

General Comments

It is obviously difficult to separate influences on the initiation
of cardiovascular diseases and those which affect the development of such
diseases once they are established.

This is especially true where recognition and classification of the
disease occur only after other symptoms exist, as is usually the case.

As might be expected, there is no hard and fast rule or universally
consistent clinical opinion on this matter. It is clear that individuals
differ in response to smoking and to their deprivation from the habit.

Further research may conceivably indicate that a sufficiently high
percentage of those with established degrees of cardiovascular disorders will
react so unfavorably to smoking as to justify medical advice on certain courses
of action. Such advice, if given, would represent an important bridge
between the individual doctor and his patient. The desired situation is one
which allows for broad clinical experience to be carefully applied
to guide the profession in the light of its clinical experience.

The references supplied with earlier opinions which are based on
such experience should be considered as being contridictory rather than
conclusive and as being selected for purposes of comparison.

The important point is that more refined and sophisticated
longitudinal studies of carefully selected populations of apparently normal individuals
are sorely needed. These should aid in pointing out recognition of departures
from normality which may be closely connected with their origin.

Similarly, manageable populations of patients with established
early cardiovascular diseases should provide material for more sophisticated
clinical studies of factors which may influence the progress and course of
these diseases.

Until such studies are organized and bear fruit we shall have to be
content with a type of evidence which leaves doubt as to whether we are
dealing with factors which influence origin alone, progressive development
alone, or both.

Peripheral Circulation

According to Setman in *Allan St. M.*, the effect of cigarette
smoking on arterial blood volume follows it now. They have, therefore,
used intravenous for experimentation.

If the creation of smaller vessels is all that results from the
effect presented, detailed recordings give a normal size.