Grant Application # 1124, Peter V. Tischler, M.D.; Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

"Asryl Hydrocarbon Hydroxylase and Occupational Exposure to Asbestos"

This Investigator intends to measure lymphoblast Alii inducibility in subjects with known heavy exposure to asbestos for many years. Their findings will be compared with an age-matched unexposed control population. The exposed group will include 100 smokers and 55 non-smokers, a number which they believe will be sufficient to provide prospective assessments of the relationships between Alii inducibility and the development of disease known to be related to asbestos (lung cancer, and mesothelioma).

Spectrofluorometric methods will be used for the determination of Alii in cultured lymphoblasts. Studies will be re-rated on a sub-sample of the total population. Finally, Dr. Selloff, a physician with extensive experience in the asbestos problem, will be a participant in the study through the provision of follow-up, presumably over a long period of time, on the subjects so that correlation between asbestos associated lung disease and Alii inducibility might be determined.

Investigations will be conducted at the Chamlin Laboratory of the Harvard Medical School which is located at the Boston City Hospital. The laboratory facilities appear to be adequate.

Samples will be collected by Dr. Selloff and his associates and there is a letter indicating the collaboration agreement with Dr. Selloff.

There is one technical point that I would like to raise and this pertains to the budget justification. Specifically, the specimen will be obtained in New York City by Dr. Selloff during the course of routine examinations on the subject population. The Investigator raises a concern about safe arrival of samples in Boston and I assume he does not feel comfortable with the shipping arrangements. It is should be a serious problem since we have shown difficulties successfully on numerous occasions, and this particular problem could be resolved with the saving of significant funds which might otherwise be expended through Boston to help work out return trips personnel.

This project appears to be of high merit and the Investigator definitely ought to have it implemented. We need additional information, however, between amount of value to learn about the important problem of Alii, given difficulties and test dilemmas related discussions.



Dr. Hochlett