COCONINO COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

GEORGE J. GRAHAM
Director

Youth Access to Cigarettes
in Flagstaff, AZ

SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION

A recent round of unannounced compliance buys at 33 Flagstaff tobacco retailers and vending machines has shown that minors could easily buy cigarettes. Compliance buy surveys completed nationwide have documented that about 50-100% of the attempts were successful.

In Flagstaff, fifteen to sixteen year old youths bought cigarettes 61.4% of the time. The percentage jumped to 92% from vending machines. Over half of the vending machines were in clear sight of employees, nonetheless, minors still bought cigarettes.

Warning signs stating the 18 year old age limit to purchase tobacco products were posted at only 25.6% of locations. Identification was asked of the minors only 33.7% of the time. On two occasions, even after presenting the clerk with underage identification, the clerk still sold the cigarettes to the minor.

Businesses most likely to sell to a minor were gas,/convenience (46.6%), restaurant/bar and Other which included hotels/motels and bowling alleys (88.6%). Almost all in the restaurant/bar and Other category were vending machines.

METHOD

In February, 1994, unannounced inspections (compliance buys) were conducted at north wall Flagstaff tobacco retailers and vending machines. This included 53 locations where cigarettes can be bought over-the-counter, and 27 vending machines. Although the sample used was not random, nearly all of the tobacco retailers were covered.

Minors ages 15-16 attempted to buy cigarettes at a total of 83 locations. Two minors, or a minor and adult escort who would walk in after minor avoid association entered the tobacco retail outlet or vending machine location. The minor located the cashier, picked a name brand (Marlboro, Camel), brought them the cigarette and made an attempt to purchase from vending machines to show their money to purchase cigarettes. If the minor was asked for ID, they said they were instructed not to lie, and would pull their ID.

After the purchase attempt, the minor filled out a questionnaires about the location situation and experienced upon their observations of collected objective information.

AZ 001019

2500 NORTH VALLEY ROAD • FLAGSTAFF ARIZONA 86001 • (602) 773-5142