CIGARETTE AD SHOWDOWN SET

by Chinta Strausberg

Denying charges that she was forced to cancel a recent meeting she chairs that was scheduled to hear testimony on a bill banning outdoor cigarette ads, Ald. Jeaner Butler (27) has set a "showdown" session where top public relations guns say they will be waiting to “probably ambush her resolution and send it scurrying into the sunset.”

After waiting for 90 minutes for the aldermen, several tobacco executives and lobbyists, who had flown in from Washington, D.C. and Springfield, left the meeting room but vowed to attend her June 14, 10 a.m. Committee meeting where pro-smoking forces will verbally sword fight over complaints that Black neighborhoods have allegedly been flooded with billboard ads depicting smoking as “OK,” “seductive,” cool, according to Butler.

Should the aldermen muster the needed 26 City Council votes for passage, the controversial bill would ban outdoor cigarette and rolling papers which is often used for smoking marijuana.

But such heavyhitters as Jack Kraft, chief financial officer of Leo Burnett Company, Stephen R. Shinn, from Gannett Outdoor of Chicago, and Ellen Venable, executive director of the Advertsing Club, who are poised to testify last week at the Chicago Defender they were more concerned about censorship by the singling out of outdoor cigarette ads which is how they make their living and that of their clients.

Promising an all-out war against this alleged censorship, Kraft asked, “Have you ever heard of a little bit of censorship?” He and the others feel that the First Amendment would be violated should this bill pass.

While sensitive to the issues of youth smoking and the possible rippling effect that sometimes leads to drug use, Kraft said the singling out of cigarettes is "wrong" and perhaps for banning?"

Shinn said zeroing in on cigarette advertisement is “unwarranted” when this bill arguing that the problem is not with billboard ads but rather the lack of enforcement of minors being allowed to purchase cigarettes.

Shinn said tobacco industry spends about $600 million a year for adverisement mostly in newspapers and magazines and only percent on billboards.

TILBC,T0104