May 9, 1968

A SUMMARY OF THE QUANTITATIVE CHANGES WHICH OCCUR
IN SOME OF THE CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CONSTITUENTS
OF TOBACCO DURING THE NATURAL AGING PROCESS

SAMPLING:

For a period of seven years, tobacco samples representative of each crop
year were taken to study the quantitative changes which occur in some of
the chemical and biological constituents of tobacco during the natural
aging process. Both flue-cured and burley tobaccos were taken from the
major growing regions from 1952 through 1958. Specific markets were
selected which were widely separated and considered to be representative
of the major bulk of flue-cured and burley tobaccos purchased by the
Company. Samples for the aging project were taken from these same
markets each year. The belts and markets which were selected were:
(1) GEORGIA - Blackshear Market, (2) SOUTH CAROLINA - Mullins Market,
(3) EASTERN CAROLINA - Kinston Market, (4) OLD BELT - Winston-Salem Area,
(5) TENNESSEE - Greenville Market, and (6) KENTUCKY - Bloomfield Market.
Samples representative of both lug and leaf types of tobacco were included
as sampling variables.

A practical core sampling procedure was developed to provide subsamples
from experimental hopeheads for laboratory analyses. It was shown that
the core sampling procedure used in this work yielded representative and
reproducible samples. Samples for both chemical and microbiological
analyses were taken essentially the same procedure; the only
difference being that a completely sterile coring apparatus was used for
taking the samples for microbiological analyses. Tobacco core samples
were also used for the purpose of making cigarettes for subsequent smoking
tests during the aging study. The apparatus used for taking the core
samples was an electric power drill and a hollow auger fitted with a sharp
cutting edge.

ROUTINE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS:

A quantitative evaluation of total alkaloids, nicotine, total nitrogen,
potassium chloride, leaf moisture, and pH (fluffing) in aging tobacco was
made every six periods (approximately 110 days) after it was put in
samples were cured initially in Virginia-type natural aging process and
then transferred to the “Swiss” line.

The statistical methods used in this work are descriptive of
the data obtained. The results are presented in tables and graphs.
Samples were analyzed in quadruplicate, and the average values are reported.

Respectfully submitted,

W. H. Taylor, Jr.



3015
8/24/68