CONTROL AND MAXIMIZATION OF TOBACCO SMOKE
DOSE IN CHRONIC ANIMAL STUDIES

Why do we need inhalation studies with whole tobacco smoke,
and what can we hope to accomplish with them? A stated purpose
of the tobacco and health program is to develop a less hazardous
cigarette (Reference 1). The major risks associated with tobacco smoke
are cancer, notably respiratory tract cancer, chronic respiratory
disease(s), and cardiovascular disease(s). While the toxicity and
the harmful effects of individual tobacco smoke components can be
assessed in bioassay systems not involving inhalation exposure,
the full pathogenic potency of a mixture as tobacco
smoke ultimately must be determined by inhalation studies with whole
smoke. This presentation focuses on some crucial problems related
to dosimetry and maximization of smoke exposure in tobacco smoke
inhalation studies. We will limit our discussion to efforts aimed
at the improvement and development of bioassays for testing the
chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of whole tobacco smoke in small
laboratory rodents using passive smoke inhalation techniques.

Methods to Estimate Sustained Dose

Before discussing how to control and maximize the dose of
tobacco smoke delivered to experimental animals, we need to take
stock briefly of the major methods currently used to measure sus-
tained dose and to suggest possible new approaches. It is important
to remember that we will be measuring tobacco smoke components
only, rather than whole tobacco smoke, but hopefully such measure-
ments will be indicative of a class of compounds or a significant
fraction of tobacco smoke. Currently two main options are avail-
able for measuring or estimating tobacco smoke dose, with perhaps
a third one to be added in the future. The first is to measure
normally occurring tobacco smoke constituents (or their derivatives)
in the body or blood of exposed animals. The simplest and
most common principle of this approach is determination of COHb.
The second empirical approach, developed more recently, is to label
tobacco with chemical or radioactive tracers, then determine the
amount of tracer in the respiratory tract or in the expired air.
This method has more knowledge of the fate of the tracer during
one's tissue distribution and of the smoke’s volatility,
pyrolysis, its much more complicated than the former and requires
etc. Typical examples of this approach are studies with decahyd ro-
biphenyl (2,2‘) [16 hexadecane and 4-methoxybenzene (4.5)]
and 14C-labeled tobacco (3). The last option is to use the sum
of the mass concentrations of a number of representative smoke
constituents as an estimate of total dose delivered to the animal.
This approach has been used by several groups (4, 5, 6) and it
has the advantage that it does not require special preparation
of the tobacco. However, it is subject to the limitation that
the selected constituents may not accurately represent the entire
smoke mixture.

References

1.  U.S. Public Health Service. Reducing the health hazards of cigarette smoke. Washington, D.C., U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, 1964.



58 0126 039