Comments on Original Application # 1240-Jir

#1240 - The Effects of Aluminum Silicate in vivo and in vitro - W.S. Lyam Duke University.

This proposal is only a part of the vast program under way Financed by various sources including the N.I.H.B.S.

The investigator begins with the thesis that aluminum silicate and organic contaminants bound to it are an important cause of environmentally-induced pulmonary injury. He proposes to study aluminum silicate because it is an ubiquitous pollutant that avidly binds organic contaminants such as pyrolyzed hydrocarbons and peroxidized lipids; it is present in oats, tobacco, and prepared or processed tobacco products such as cigarettes and many unwashed agricultural products - grains - cottons - flax, etc.

With CTR support he expects to study the following questions:

a) What forms of aluminum silicate and what contaminants bound to it in particles obtained from various sources can be isolated and characterized?

b) Which of these isolated conglomerates injure macrophages, fibroblasts, and epithelial cells - either directly, producing sublethal injury or depressing function?

c) What are the mechanism of this toxicity?

d) Do these isolated conglomerates alter intracellular communication between leucocytes, epithelial cells and fibroblasts?

Briefly his study will be coordinated with others at Duke one of which is concerned with obtaining aluminum silicate from whole tobacco smoke, lungs from smokers and other sources such as grains with the intent of isolating and characterizing the aluminum silicate and organic materials bound to it and compare these materials with the aluminum silicate isolated from other sources. Another investigator will test the prolonged effects in vitro of the various isolated fractions on macrophages, fibroblasts and epithelial cells and the third collaborator will do in vivo.

I have gone over the whole protocol and I am quite sure this group can make progress in the areas they proposed to investigate. However they alreadey have large sums of money for related studies and will probably pursue proposed or related studies anyway. This proposal goes beyond the study of the tobacco in some that the proposal is a large and important interest would grow as time goes on by assent. The budget shares probably would not be sufficient to wrap up the independent in a way that would dominate the study of tobacco-related illnesses, but allocating additional funds would be appropriate.