Dr. Redford B. Williams, Jr. (Duke University Medical Center) opened the conference with a discussion of hostility and hormones as biobehavioral mechanisms in CAD. He said that looking at type A behavior is like looking at total cholesterol. There are a lot of components, some of which are toxic, some may be protective, and some may not be related to the development of CAD. The so-called global type A behavior should be broken down into its microcomponents and their contributions, individually and in combination with other components, need to be assessed. The microcomponent concept may explain why some angiographic studies have failed to show an effect of type A behavior on CAD. The power of the “toxic” components was not strong enough to overcome the "protective" components in the small studies.

After adjusting for all the standard risk factors, type A behavior is related to coronary heart disease (CHD) only in people 55 years of age or younger. This is true for females as well as males but men are at a higher CHD risk. Dr. Williams said this age effect was there no matter how one looks at the data. He also said that global type A at sufficient power is related to CHD, and asked if biologically-vulnerable types A’s died earlier and did not live long enough for the effect of type A behavior to be seen after age 55.

Looking at the components of type A behavior is the next step and all agreed that type A’s have a potential for hostility. (It was also noted that type B's with CHD exhibit some characteristics of type A behavior, but not enough to be called type A's.) Another characteristic is the repression of anger. Those who express their anger do not have an increased amount of CHD. It was also noted that all risk factors get weaker as age increases. The suggestion was made that if population samples aged 45 years or over are employed, these people may be too old for the effect of many risk factors to be seen.

Another factor to be considered is that a lot of type A behavior may be related to the sympathetic nervous system. Increased levels of adrenaline, norepinephrine, and testosterone have been observed in some U.S. cities. Dr. Redford B. Williams, Jr., going on to say if he can produce atherosclerosis in the Egyptian sand, he’d certainly creating the type A behavioral milieu here.

Dr. Theodore H. Denbowick (University of Maryland) discussed hostility and the social milieu. He said that there is a strong association between hostility and CHD. He also said that we have not yet determined whether hostility is a cause or a risk factor. He then talked about the role of anger, saying that anger is a very important variable in our society. He then asked if this anger is expressed or repressed. He said that he has been working with a group of young men and found that those who express their anger have less CHD.

Dr. Denbowick also discussed the concept of “learned helplessness.” He said that people who feel helpless are more likely to develop CHD. He then talked about the role of social support, saying that people who have strong social support networks are less likely to develop CHD.

Dr. James E. Fries (UCLA School of Medicine) spoke on the natural history of coronary heart disease. He said that CHD is a progressive disease and that it tends to get worse over time. He then talked about the role of lifestyle factors, saying that people who smoke, eat a high-fat diet, and don’t exercise are more likely to develop CHD.

Dr. Fries also discussed the concept of “psychosocial acceleration.” He said that psychosocial stress can accelerate the progression of CHD. He then talked about the role of personality, saying that people who are Type A are more likely to develop CHD.

He concluded by saying that we need to do more research on the natural history of CHD and on the role of lifestyle factors and personality in the development of this disease.



