silicosis where they had been exposed to fumes which irritated the respiratory tract. Deformation of the respiratory tract due to silil-cosis has a greater bearing on the development of chronic bronchitis and airway obstruction than moderate cigarette smoking."

SE

FRUHMANN, G., SPENGLER, H. & PROHASZKA, University of Munich

"Chronische Bronchitis und Staubkonzentration am Arbeitsplatz.” (Chronic bronchitis and dust concentration at the place of work) (Munchner Medizinische Wochenschrift 118/7: 209-12, February 1976; authors’ English summary)

“In connection with the chronic bronchitis key program of the German Research Society 1501 workers in a Munich engineering plant with foundry were examined from 1965 to 1970. With increasing exposure to dust at the work place, bronchitic symptoms such as coughing and sputum become significantly more frequent. Obstructive ventilation disturbances do not increase. Heavy smokers show an overwhelmingly greater frequency of bronchitis symptoms than those exposed to excessive dust. The in-crease in bronchial obstruction in relation to the consumption of tobacco is remarkable. The effect of age seems to be rather less than that of smoking and greater than that of dust."

5. THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM

JORGENSEN, T.G. & GYNTELBERG, P., University of Copenhagen, Denmark

"Occurrence of peptic ulcer disease in Copenhagen males age 40-59.” (Danish Medical Bulletin 23/1: 23-8, February 1976)

“The occurrence of peptic ulcer disease in Copenhagen males was investigated using a sample consisting of 5,249 individuals aged 40-59. Every subject had an interview on the basis of a questionnaire which yielded information on previous diseases, working conditions, physical activities, and consumption of stimulants and medicine. At the exam-ination height, weight, and indirectly measured maximal aerobic power were measured.

“A subject who had an ulcer confirmed by x-rays and had been treated for ulcer diseases was included as an ulcer individual.

On their first contact of the 5,249 individuals participated in a one-year follow-up examination.

"The incidence of peptic ulcers as related to x-rays is 9.2 per cent and ong year later 1.5 per cent.

“Social status, marital status, and night work were significant factors influencing the occurrence of peptic ulcers. The risk of peptic ulcer was highest among divorced men. Men with night work had a significantly higher incidence of peptic ulcers than day workers. The consumption of coffee and tobacco showed a positive correlation with the incidence of peptic ulcers."

6. THE SKELETAL SYSTEM

HANSEN, P.M., University of Aarhus, Denmark

"Prevalence of low back pain in Copenhagen males aged 40-59 years.” (Danish Medical Bulletin 23/3: 11-16, March 1976)