Abstract for ETS - Symposium in Tokyo

CRG
RLS

PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGICAL RESPONSE TO ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE IN AN EXPERIMENTAL

SOCIAL SETTING

GERHARD WINNEKE, MANFRED NEUF, ANNA ROSCOVANNU, HANS-WERNER SCHLÜTER

Medizinisches Institut für Umwelthygiene der Univer-
sität Düsseldorf, Abt. für Psychophysiologie

D-4000 Düsseldorf, Fed.Rep. of Germany

Results from a pilot study (I) as well as preliminary findings from an exten-
ded study (II) will be presented, in which either non-smoking students (I) or
non-smoking adults from the general population (II) were exposed to ETS produced
by an active smoker in a social, experimentally controlled setting.

Results from study I are based on 64 Ss of both sexes exposed to ETS corres-
ponding to either 0, 2.5, 5, and 15 ppm CO. Duration of exposure was 60 minutes
and CO was continuously monitored by IR-spectroscopy. Objective (eye blinks, la-
cymal flow, blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration) as well as subjective
measures based on questionnaire items were taken at 20° intervals. COHb was mea-
sured before and after ETS-exposure. Significant effects of exposure were found
for blinks, lacrimal flow, COHb, as well as for most of the questionnaire-based
information. With the exception of the questionnaire variables exhibiting dose-
response-relationship, the majority of dependent variables showed clear threshold
characteristics: The 15 ppm-condition only was significantly different from the
control level. From this finding the tentative conclusion is drawn for a no-ad-
verse effect-level for ETS to be located between 5 and 15 ppm, rather than below
5 ppm. (WINNEKE et al., 1984).

In order to substantiate this conclusion and to gain information about the
generalizability of the response-response a second extended study (II) was con-
ducted, in which the psychophysiological effects of ETS-exposure were compared
to those of noise- and odour-exposure; this study is not yet completed. The Ss of
this study were selected from the general population living in noise- and odor-
problem-areas of the city of Düsseldorf. Based on a social survey covering 2300
individuals only non-smokers from extreme groups with high or low annoyance-level
characteristics, respectively, were asked to participate in the experimental part
of the study. These participants in a social setting were exposed to CO of
0, 5, 10 and 15 ppm. Apart from technical modifications it is the out-come
measures and when these will be given further information corresponding to rude
pilot study (I), results based on the first 13 Ss will be presented in a
later publication.

Acknowledgements: We thank Mrs. Ute Kuhlmann for her help in data processing
and Mr. Klaus-Peter Schillinger for his support in technical matters. This work
was supported by grant 84-2056-H of the German Federal Ministry of Health.

References: WINNEKE, G., NEUF, M., ROSCOVANNU, A., SCHLÜTER, H.-W.: cf. this
volume.