CORESTA SS and ETS TASK FORCE : GREEN
SIDESTREAM ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES

Summary of main points from Meeting
on 21st January 1988

Co-ordinator of Task Force: C.R. Green (RJR, UK)
Summary written by: R.R. Baker (BAT, UK)

ACTION

1. A literature review on Sidestream Methodology was given by
R.M. Jenkins (PM, USA), followed by presentations on specific
methods by L.J. Proctor (FORT, UK), E.D. John (Rothmans, UK),
C.M. Matting (Kimberly-Clark, USA), J.H. Bell (Lorillard, USA)
and D.W. Baker (RJR, USA).

2. In general discussion, it was agreed to define sidestream smoke
as all the smoke generated by a cigarette that is not mainstream.

3. It was also agreed to refer to sidestream methods as “analytical
methods for sidestream smoke determination” and not to imply in
any way that this is related to ETS.

4. It was agreed to define sidestream particulate matter-water-
nicotine free (PMWNF) as that collected on a Cambridge pad and
deposited in the apparatus using the minimum distance between
the cigarette and pad that would ensure the temperature 1 cm
on the smoke side of the pad was ± 2°C.

5. It was decided to do an inter-laboratory comparison of methods.
Each person wishing to participate in this co-operative study
should write to C.R. Green stating :

(a) his willingness to participate

(b) the number of each type of cigarette he will require

(c) any information he may have on anemometers or other air
velocity measurement methods (see 9(b) below).

6. The following cigarettes will be used in the co-operative study:
(a) K14F (University of Kentucky reference cigarette)
(b) C-20 (20% ventilated German Verband reference cigarette)
(c) C-50 (50% ventilated German Verband reference cigarette)
(d) DX un-ventilated cigarette
(e) XR flue-cured Canadian

(a) £30 per thousand can be obtained by writing to:
Ms. Betty Rice, Purchasing Officer,
Purchasing Tobacco and Health Research Institute
Courter 9 Alling Drives
Lexington, KY 40546, (Tel: 606 267 2804)

(b) Xerox copies of this report will be sent to participants.
Mr. John Skinner,
Xerox Ltd.,
P.O. Box 13,
Wellington, Somerset BA22 8RG (Tel: 0458 27061)

(c) Next meeting is scheduled for 19th February 1988 at the
Swiss Tobacco Research Institute, Zurich.

Participating
delegates

3046 8635

G.J. Parkinson
S. Richter
R.R. Baker
C.R. Green