RCV BY RJRT EXT. RELATIONS : 7-18-91 : 1:10:50AM : 2024579350 - 319717975: # 2

FILE COPY

TALKING POINTS
NIOSH Current Intelligence Bulletin on ETS

Background

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has issued a Current Intelligence Bulletin (CIB) on ETS in the workplace which concludes that ETS is “a potential occupational carcinogen” and which recommends "exposure be reduced to the lowest feasible concentration."

The CIB suggests that exposure to ETS is most efficiently and completely controlled by simply eliminating tobacco use from the workplace. Short of a smoking ban, the CIB recommends separate ventilation for smoking areas.

Responses

o No effort is made in the CIB to assess actual workplace exposures to ETS. Instead, the report simply states that 25% of U.S. adults smoke, that urine cotinine has been observed in nonsmokers and that respirable suspended particulate matter support the notion that nonsmokers are exposed in the workplace.

- of the eleven epidemiologic studies on ETS that examine workplace smoking exposure, only one reports a significant association -- ten report no such statistically significant association.

- The authors of the one workplace study to report a statistically significant association suggested in their report that the association was weak and did not seem to fall in line with the other conclusions of the study.

The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recently argued, in response to an Action on Smoking and Health law suit seeking an emergency temporary standard banning workplace smoking, that the data on workplace exposure is scant, and is insufficient to support an emergency standard. OSHA’s arguments were upheld by the U.S. court of Appeals for the District of Columbia circuit.

- Several scientific papers, including research undertaken by the American Health Foundation, have reported that workplace exposure to ETS is far lower than that found in the home. The CIB does not even mention this data, let alone discuss it, though the CIB concedes that “the relative contributions of non work versus home environments in ETS exposure has not been well quantified.”

5071 Current Intelligence Bulletin