INDOOR BIOLOGICAL POLLUTANTS

Harriet A. Burge PhD
Associate Research Scientist
University of Michigan Medical School

What are the biological air pollutants that pose risks to public health?

Biological air pollutants or “bioaerosols” are particles or vapors in the air that are derived from living organisms. Microscopic organisms such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi (mold) become airborne, as well as toxic and allergenic compounds produced by their growth in the environment. In addition, higher organisms such as cockroaches, dust mites, cats, dogs, birds, etc. shed allergens into the air are common

What are the health impacts caused by these biological pollutants?

Biological air pollutants cause infections, allergies, and toxic diseases.
Some of these are listed below:

Organism     Source       Disease
Virus         Humans        Influenza
               			      Measles
               			      Chicken pox
               			      Some colds

Bacteria      Humane		Tuberculosis
                Water reservoirs	Legionnaires’ disease
                Water reservoirs	Humidifier fever
                Heating systems	“Farmers’ lung disease”
                                 Hypersensitivity pneumonia)
                                 odors, discomfort

Fungi         Damp materials   Aspergillosis (infection)
                                 “Farmers’ lung disease”
                                 Asthma
                                 “Hay fever”
                                 Acute toxic disease
                                 Cancer
                                 Odors, discomfort
                                 Sick building syndrome?

The infectious diseases result when a living microorganism invades and grows in human tissue. The airborne viral diseases (all of which are infectious) are transmitted through the air from one person to another. Most of the airborne viral diseases affect anyone who has not already had the disease, including normal healthy children and adults. They are familiar and need not be reviewed here.
Tuberculosis is a familiar lung disease that, as with viruses, is transmitted through the air when infected patients cough, sing, or even talk. The organisms do not grow in environmental reservoirs such as cooling towers or humidifiers. Normal healthy people require large doses of the causative bacterium before infection occurs. Tuberculosis is a re-emerging problem because there are increasing numbers of susceptible individuals. Legionnaires’ disease aids patients who are highly capable to it impaired immunity (including AIDS another

S8716 314