EBDC CAMPAIGN - TURKEY

1990 CROP

JAN. 5, 1990 - A meeting was held in Winston-Salem with Mr. W. K. Greer, Dr. S. Saunders and myself at which the situation we discussed in detail. Analyses from the 1988 and previous crops were reviewed, and a general approach to combating the problem in the coming and future crops was discussed. Mr. Greer requested that he be kept fully advised of our progress in this campaign.

JAN. 11, 1990 - I met with Mr. R. English, Director of Imported Leaf, at PM Richmond. He discussed the problem in general and PM’s position and policy concerning this matter. I was told that PM was certainly concerned about the issue and that if Socotrab other Oriental producing countries, PM would offer their full support in these efforts.

JAN. 19, 1990 - A meeting was held with the PM and BAT Oriental Leaf managers in Izmir to discuss the situation and to outline a campaign for attacking this issue in the coming 1990 crop. It was decided to proceed along the same lines as our previous successful 1988 crop campaign against the misuse of Endosulfan products.

JAN. 22, 1990 - A meeting was held with the Board of Directors of the Aegean Tobacco Exporters Association. The problem was discussed in detail; possible solutions to the tobacco trade were emphasized and the general outline of a full support at cooperation of the association was assured.

JAN. 24, 1990 - A meeting was held with the following members of the Turkish State Monopoly (TEKEL) General Management Staff in Istanbul:
Mr. S. Y. Ozden – Chairman and General Manager.
Mr. A. Kasap – Assistant General Manager.
Mr. N. Sagbilgi – Manager, Leaf Tobacco Commercial Section
Mr. G. Capan – Manager, Leaf Tobacco research and Quality Control

Accompanying me at this meeting were:
Dr. B. Mener - President, Aegean Tobacco Exporters’ Association
Mr. D. Downes – Area Manager, PM Izmir
Mr. H.J. Pounceley – Area Manager, BAT Izmir

Here again the problem was discussed in detail and the serious potential consequences of a reliance on tobacco exports was emphasized. The general outline of a campaign against the misuse of Endosulfan with matters relating to restrictions and controls was discussed upon our area technical staff.

JAN. 26, 1990 - I met with Mr. R. English in Izmir to discuss progress on the program and review plans for the next few weeks. We also discussed a coordination between Socotrab and TEKEL concerning enforcement activities.

FEB. 6, 1990 – A meeting was held with Mr. N. Sagbilgi and Mr. G. Capan of TEKEL in Izmir to discuss the progress of the campaign and to review plans for the next few weeks.

FEB. 7, 1990 - I met with Mr. D. Downes and Mr. H.J. Pounceley of PM and BAT respectively in Izmir to discuss the progress of the campaign and to review plans for the next few weeks.

FEB. 8, 1990 – A meeting was held with Mr. R. English, Dr. S. Saunders and myself at which the situation was discussed in detail. It was decided that we would proceed with our plans as outlined.

FEB. 13, 1990 - I met with Mr. R. English in Ankara to discuss progress on the program and review plans for the next few weeks.



51108 5054