Protocol

Ann Wilson Att Alan Freeman Study #1
Michael Grossman
Franklin earlyl

Once a suitable smoking population is established from a careful review of the questionnaires, the subjects will be divided into two groups of 16 subjects each.
The first group will be designated Group A and will be made up of smokers who have smoked at least 1 pack of cigarettes with yields of 1 mg tar and 0.1 to 0.2 mg nicotine (note Gori used 5 cigarettes as a minimum). The second, Group B, will consist of smokers who have smoked at least 1 pack of medium tar and nicottine cigarettes, e.g., 7 to 12 mg tar and 0.5 to 1 mg nicottine.

All subjects must be told the nature of the study being carried out, e.g., estimating the amount of smoking by measuring metabolites in blood, and that the study involves commercially available cigarettes.

Randomization of 32 subjects within groups A and B into subgroups A₁ and A₂ and B₁ and B₂ will be carried out as follows:

Subjects in Group A and those in Group B will be listed in alphabetical order and assigned a number between 1 and 16. For the first week odd numbered sub-jects will be given Barclay cigarettes to smoke and even numbered subjects will be given Now cigarettes to smoke. For the second week the odd numbered subjects will be given Now cigarettes to smoke and the even numbered subjects will be given Barclay cigarettes. All subjects will be given a medium tar and nicottine yield cigarette, e.g., Vantage (9 mg tar, 0.7 mg nicottine) for the third week.

Cigarettes

To insure representative samples of each of the brands of cigarettes, it is desirable to pool all the cigarettes for each of the 3 brands needed in the study, then randomize and repack the cigarettes in unmarked packs (except for some code number that will identify the test cigarettes but not the brand). Each smoker will receive an excess number of cigarettes, e.g., 1 pack more than the amount listed by the subject in his questionnaire (to prevent running out of cigarettes and smoking cigarettes other than those assigned).

Dins Jon Willy

Arthur D. Little Inc.