RCY BY R.J. GOV. RELATIONS : 7-7592 : 1-0091 : 717 236 8633

Response to State Attorneys General

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
July 1, 1992

Key Points

□ Dr. Difranza, a principal author of the JAMA studies, has said "None of these studies were designed to show that these Camel ads increased smoking among kids."

□ Joe Camel and Mickey Mouse were not equally recognized in the total study.

□ Dr. Joseph Difranza has admitted to bias and research manipulation in his work that purports Camel has 32% of youth smokers.

□ Youth smoking is on the decline in the U.S., while youth disapproval-of smoking is increasing.

□ Recognition of advertising does not translate into usage or changed attitudes about smoking.

The Journal of the American Medical Association reports that teen smoking can be reduced by as much as 50% through compliance with existing minimum-age laws.

Background facts

The statement Joe Camel as well recognized as Mickey Mouse is one of the most incorrect headlines in this controversy. The article shows that 81.7% of the 329 kids in the study recognized Mickey Mouse as the Disney logo, 51.3% recognized Joe Camel as a cigarette illustration or a 40-point gap. The 23 6-year-olds in the study came closer to recognizing the two equally, but 21 kids in one school are in no way representative of the entire U.S., and the flawed methodology of the survey affected this result. Also, recognition does not change the negative recognition kids have about smoking.

□ Dr. Joseph Difranza, the principal author of the article on Camel’s share of the youth market, has admitted to the press that there is bias and manipulation in his research on Camel. The purpose of his work, he says, was to “give us a couple of smoking guns to bring to the media.” He has acknowledged that "None of these studies were designed to show that these Camel ads increased smoking among kids." He outlined the final article more than a year before its publication, writing a research colleague, "There, the paper is all ready. Now all we need is some data."

5124 269