WINSTON, NASCAR HAVE GROWN TOGETHER

The 1995 season marks the 25th year of involvement in NASCAR for R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., its flagship Winston brand. For a quarter of a century, NASCAR and Winston have joined to form one of the most successful marketing ventures in the history of sports sponsorships.

Since R.J.R. and Winston began sponsoring the Winston Cup Series in 1971, the growth of NASCAR racing has been nothing short of sensational.

“We are very excited to be celebrating our Silver Anniversary in NASCAR Winston Cup racing,” says T. Wayne Robertson, the president of R.J.R.’s Sports Marketing Enterprises. “We believe this program to be one of the finest in any marketing campaign, and we’re very proud of the contributions we have been able to make to the sport," Robertson says. "We thank the competitors for their acceptance of our role in racing and the fans for their continued support of our products.”

During those 25 years, the level of competition has skyrocketed. Only a handful of teams were capable of victory during NASCAR’s formative years. Today, almost any driver in the field has what it takes to find victory in NASCAR Winston Cup racing.

In 1971, Winston established the first point fund for competitors – $100,000. Richard Petty claimed the champion's $40,000 portion at the Plaza Hotel in Daytona Beach, Fla.

The Winston Cup point fund has grown by leaps and bounds in the 25 seasons hence. At the 1995 NASCAR Winston Cup Awards banquet in the Grand Ballroom of the storied Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, Winston will distribute $3.5 million – a $500,000 increase over 1994 – to 25 drivers and teams. The substantial increase shows how dedicated Winston is to the great sport of NASCAR Winston Cup racing.

Since its involvement began, Winston has pumped more than $50 million into competitors’ bank accounts – through point funds, special competitions and individual races sponsored by Reynolds Tobacco.

From the 1995 point fund, $1.3 million will go to the Winston Cup champion. For the past two seasons, that champion has been Dale Earnhardt. “The Intimidator,” as he is known to many, tied the great Richard Petty’s mark last year by claiming his seventh Winston Cup title, a mark many thought never would be equaled. Earnhardt now has won three straight Winston Cup championships, an accomplishment he will be seeking this season.

If a competition can be judged by its champions, Petty's and Earnhardt's presence at the top of the list places them in elite company.

The $1.3 million point fund is part of the Winston 500 Plus Bonus Program. The Cup point fund covers the driver with the highest total points during the season’s 72 events, 0:25 worth more than a dozen Winston Cup races alone. In addition to the champion's winnings, Winston will award $400,000 to second in points and $250,000 to third in points.