2071420588

Page 1

To: for Marin, Wendy

From: Gotti, Robert

Date: Mon, Jan 23, 1995 9:54 AM

Subject: 1800-to-Vwear update

Blohm, Susan; Ferrin, Robert

Hicks, Marcia(Kowal); Knuff, Ketrina; Marin, Wendy; Mc Daniel, Janice; PMUMSP12.NHOESING

Bob/Susan -

As you know there was a problem with the 1800-to-Vwear phone number being assigned to both V-wear and the Corporate Affairs Accommodation program in Columbus, Ohio.

This serves as a recap of a conference call this morning between myself, Janice Mc Daniel (PM Corp. Aff’t.), Ketrina Knuff (PM Corp. Aff’t.), Mark Baker (APAC - Telemarketing vendor that takes the Accommodation program calls), and Marcia Hicks, Peter Barros and Gary Briggs of Kowal & Associates.

Currently, we are routing any call from the 614 (Columbus) area code to APAC on the assumption that it is an Accommodation program related call. Site! handles all calls from outside this area code. This is due to the political sensitivity of wanting to keep as much distance as possible between the Accommodation program and PM.

Today (1/23) marks the start of the direct mail drop to approximately 12,500 consumers in the Columbus market.

Historically, the advent of a direct mail catalog dropping does not create a large surge in call volume. The catalog and the vision within basically speak clearly enough for themselves. Typically calls don’t start coming in heavily until orders are submitted and consumers are checking the status of their order.

Therefore for the near future, ALL calls from the 614 area code will continue to be automatically routed to APAC. APAC will change their opening script to a more generic “Thank you for calling, how may I help you?”

If the caller mentions V-wear or Vision Value, they will be transferred by APAC to Site! to be handled by CS. If the call is an Accommodation call, they will handle by APAC as they normally do.

After our conversation this morning I am confident that Mark has sufficient staffing to handle any call volume that goes into APAC from the Columbus market. He is to provide me with a weekly report regarding the call volume that they are transferring to Site!.

We will need to revisit this issue in approximately 4 weeks to determine what changes we need to make as volumes increase due to order status inquiry calls.

I’ll keep everyone posted. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call me at x3149.

Thanks,

Robert

cc:  T. Rink
       S. Blohm
       M. Hicks
       J. Mc Daniel 
       K. Knuff