Original Message:-
From: Conrad, Nancy W.
Sent: Friday, July 26, 2001 11:44 PM
To: Rittweger, Karen L; Schultz, Linda H.
Subject: RE: Cowboy Christmas
Agree with the simplicity of the piece and the opportunity to dimensionalize Cowboy's Christmas for our YAS direct audience. I also like a "Card" format in the spirit of Cowboy’s Christmas might be a nice action to think about when writing the brief as it will add the personal touch we are hoping them to understand this summer. “Holiday” cards are nice personal touch on any holiday, especially one that relates to understanding special return address looks like it's from a friend (if you do not - beautiful card, regular card envelope, not in the middle fold at all). Like Hallmark, most people look at the back of a great card. The back of the card only becomes a tradition for our YAS service (like the Birthday Card), regardless of the retail communication during that time period. Moreover, many co-send holiday cards at year end. This will be different. Just some thoughts...

The communication of the specific offer of retail could be problematic as Shelly stated below - I'd like to avoid adult consumer disappointment if we told them about the offer and they couldn’t find it in their store - whether it is a timing or availability issue. Moreover, I think turning it into a promotional mailing takes it authentically out of the piece.

Though I agree that it might not be a compelling trial offer for competitive YAS, if they are alternate purchasers, it's a great value. In fact in a recent focus group (I can’t remember which one), an adult consumer stated that he buys the B32 gift deal and splits it among other adult smoker friends.

Though I understand that we are restricted with how we request Gift (and budget) - this might move been an appropriate time to ask for their GID (separate piece w/in envelope) and send them a more non-branded item/gift for Christmas (silver plated lighter). Though again, it might be too promotional - more marketing “to” them than just a nice personal message.

Nancy

-Orig Message:-
2079132129