---Original Message---
From: Sanders, Edward <Edward.Sanders@mintl.com>
Sent: 12/11/2011 2:56:11 PM
To: "Golena, Rick P." <rick.p.golena@pmusa.com>
Cc: "Boyer, Joy J." <Joy.J.Boyer@pmusa.com>, "Carchman, Loreen" <Loreen.L.Carchman@pmusa.com>
Subject: Contracts

Rick,

Loreen has informed me that you have the authority to waive Risk Management’s insurance requirements for contracts. As you know, the standard agreement for US contracts requires statutory workers' compensation in accordance with state and local requirements;
commercial general liability with limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate;
automobile liability for all vehicles with limits of no less than $500,000.00. These requirements are not viable for the contracts we are working on. Consultants who operate a business, such as Peter Lee, are obligated to carry insurance to be in compliance with
state law. However, private individuals, professors or doctors who
require it in the US for private individuals or professors at universities or doctors who
work for hospitals do not require insurance. The contracts that have been written for consultants and are currently in force have absolutely no
insurance requirement.

I am currently working on two contracts: the first is for Peter Lee, P. H. Lee
Consulting, and the second is for a consultant whose name I will provide shortly. I have
obtained a complete list of the policies. If you could draft a note to Paul Desel asking
that these requirements be incorporated into the contract, I would greatly appreciate it.
I need this as soon as possible so all of the information can be already passed this
information onto Paula. However, Risk Management does not have the authorization to amend
their requirements.

In regard to the contract for Bernard Synnedgehau, who is on the staff at Hospital
Lariboisière in Paris, Claude you end up enough to send a note to Paul authorizing her
to delete the insurance clause entirely. Also as long as you are communicating with
Paula, please include policy numbers and expiration dates so we can get started
immediately. I’ll be sending you more information about these contracts shortly. Please
let me know if you have any questions.

Thank you for your assistance.

Ed



208573961A