Foust, Cassandra P.

From: Matthews, Ellen W
Sent: Monday, March 12, 2001 1:19 PM
To: Foust, Cassandra P.
Subject: RE: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Site-Form Filled Out

Cassandra - just two minor changes. Ellen

---Original Message---
From: Foust, Cassandra P.
Sent: Monday, March 12, 2001 1:08 PM
To: Matthews, Ellen W.
Subject: FW: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Site-Form Filled Out

Ellen, can you please look at the response to a consumer inquiry (see below) before I send it to Consumer Relations.
Jan and I did discuss last week before she left. If you think it needs to wait for her approval, I'll inform C.R.

Tnx -- Cassandra

P.S.
Hang in there. Just think about that beautiful beach house you’ll be enjoying in just a few short weeks :) )

Dear Mr. Leighton:

We appreciate your loyalty to the Dorall brand of R.J. Tobacco Company. We are sorry that you have chosen
not to collect the cards affiliated with the Celebrate America Collector Cards program. <<We created the program as a
way for Dorall to say thank you to those smokers who do collect as a hobby.>>

The Celebrate America Collector Cards program is one more way that Dorall is giving back to its customers and is
intended to give extra value to our adult smoker consumers, developed in response to the interests of Dorall
smokers. We surveyed Dorall smokers about their interests and hobbies last year and nearly half of them told us that
they are collectors. The Celebrate America Collector Cards program allows these smokers to collect something they
like.

The intent of the program is absolutely not designed to get you to smoke more cigarettes. We’ve found that most of
our smokers have enjoyed reading and collecting these cards and would << be able to collect most of the cards
through their normal purchases of Dorall. >> inevitably be able to come across all of the cards.

---Original Message---
From: RJR Consumer Relations
Sent: Wednesday, February 28, 2001 1:11 PM
To: Matthews, Ellen W; Foust, Cassandra P.
Subject: FW: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Site-Form Filled Out

How should we answer this, "use to get me buy more?"

Thanks,
Mary Ann Usery

---Original Message---
From: Lister/Gelsinger Bulletin Board Notification <lister@bellsouth.net>
Sent: Friday, January 19, 2001 2:47 PM
To: Consumer Relations <CR@rjr.com>
Subject: Run by Consumer Relations

Consumer Bulletin Board Questions

Ellen Matthews
January 18, 2001 11:36 AM
Revised: January 19, 2001 9:47 AM
Submitted to: Ellen W. Matthews

File Name: Leighton.doc