DAILY BULLETIN... DAILY BULLETIN... DAILY BULLETIN...
...PUBLIC AFFAIRS... THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE...

FRIDAY
JANUARY 22, 1999

...IN REVIEW... IN REVIEW... IN REVIEW...

NEW HAMPSHIRE H112 would increase the cigarette tax by 25 cents per pack… referred to the House Finance Cmte.

CONNECTICUT H5520 would require all public school buildings to be smoke-
free…referred to the Joint Education Cmte.

MASSACHUSETTS H1346 would prohibit smoking or the consumption of alcohol in dormitories of public institutions of higher learning. H1289 would exempt certain smoking cessation products from the sales tax… referred to the Joint Taxation Cmte. H1273 would provide that public buildings meet certain air quality ventilation standards…referred to the Joint State Administration Cmte.

VERMONT HJ121 passed the House and was sent to the Senate...relates to the tobacco settlement.

NEW YORK S1217 would establish a tobacco settlement debt reduction fund requiring all monies to be used for reducing the general obligation indebtedness of the state…referred to the Senate Finance Cmte. S1177 would include with the basic cost of cigarettes a collection of one cent for each ten cigarettes and provide that such fee be distributed to cigarette tax agents as compensation for the cost of collecting the sales tax on cigarettes…referred to the Senate Investigations, Taxation and Governmental Operations Cmte.

NEBRASKA LG52 would increase the cigarette tax by two cents per pack to fund the Juvenile Correctional Facilities Improvement Fund. LS77 would change provisions for sales of tobacco and liquor. LS74 would hold accountable manufacturers not signing the Master Settlement Agreement.

ILLINOIS H5 would make an appropriation to the Attorney General for tobacco control programs. H87 would prohibit minor use and possession of tobacco products and provide penalties. H103 would declare tobacco contraband in state prisons. H125 would create the Tobacco Litigation Distribution Fund to be used for purposes of public health.

INDIANA H1454 would appropriate 30 percent of tobacco settlement proceeds for the next 25 years to the Department of Agriculture to make grants to those who own rights to tobacco products on 1/1/99 and to pursue University ways and means of new crops to replace tobacco…referred to the House Ways and Means Cmte.

H168 would provide that sales of smoking cessation devices are exempt from taxation…referred to the House Ways and Means Cmte. S176 would create a tobacco settlement review committee…referred to the Senate Finance and Public Health and Family Security Cmte.

7U00423
RU00423