LOUISIANA BONDING LEGISLATION

Whereas, the Tobacco Settlement Proceeds contribute substantial revenues to special funds of
this State that are used to provide essential health, education, and other human services to the
citizens of this State;

Whereas, it is critical for the legislature to exercise its fiscal responsibility to assure that these
funds are not depleted unnecessarily when there are revenue neutral measures that can be taken
to avoid that result; and

Whereas, the legislature can exercise its fiscal responsibility to protect the Tobacco Settlement
Proceeds without unduly burdening any private interests, the legislature hereby enacts the
following:

SECTION ONE. LIMITATION ON SECURITY IN LITIGATION AFFECTING
POTENTIAL PAYMENTS TO THE MILLENNIUM TRUST.

Louisiana Revised Statutes, Title 39, Public Finance, Subtitle 1, State Finance, Chapter 1,
Division of Administration, Part II-A, Special Funds, Subpart E., Tobacco Settlement Proceeds,
is amended to add new Section 99, Limitation on Security in Litigation Affecting Potential
Payments to Millennium Trust as follows.

“§ 99. Limitation on Security in Litigation Affecting Potential Payments to Millennium Trust.

A. In order to secure and protect the monies payable to the Millennium Trust, in litigation
under any legal theory involving a corporation that is a party to the “Settlement Agreement”
dated November 23, 1998, as set forth in § 98.1 of this Title, the security for an appeal of a
money or other judgment in litigation, required to stay execution thereon during the course of the
appeal, shall not be required in an amount that exceeds one hundred percent of the judgment,
exclusive of interest and costs, provided further that the total amount of security required under
this section shall not exceed $5,000,000.

B. If the appellee proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the appellant for whom the
security has been limited as set forth in subsection A. above is purposefully dissipating or
diverting assets outside of the ordinary course of its business for the purpose of avoiding ultimate
payment of the non-compensatory damages portion of the judgment, the limitation granted
pursuant to subsection A. above shall be rescinded and the requirement shall be reinstated for the

RJF00000955820877
70029 13302