RJRTI News Report

Wednesday, March 20, 1996

The following articles and excerpts have been compiled to provide RJR Tobacco international employees
with a summary of current media reports about tobacco issues. These quotations from other publications
do not represent the positions or beliefs of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco International, Inc.

Inside this issue:

Country Title Page
Japan JT To Enter Hamburger Market 1
Japan No Comment On Settlement By U.S. Tobacco Maker 2
Japan Sometimes Fresh Filter Cigarette-Super Lights 3
Poland Poznan Cigarette Maker Buys Land For New Factory 4
United Kingdom BAT Steady After US Tobacco Declines 5
United Kingdom Foreigners To Buy UK Tobacco Assets, Says Analyst 6
United States Cigarette Makers Face Threat Of More Accounts From Insiders 7
United States Dean Witter Upgrades RJRN To "Buy" From “Neutral” 8
United States FDA Affirms Say Philip Morris Manipulated Nicotine 9
United States Heard On Street: Buy Philip Morris Falls On Deaf Ear 10
United States Nicotine-Brain 11
United States NY Plans To Quit Tobacco Investments 12
United States Philip Morris: No Settlement 13

Using MS Word, holding down the CTRL key and pressing G will get you advance to a particular page.

Japan

JT TO ENTER HAMBURGER MARKET

Japan Tobacco (JT) Inc. said Thursday it will form a joint venture company in April with Grand
Metropolitan PLC of Britain to jointly run the Burger King chain of fastfood restaurants in Japan.
To start up the new business, the joint company will buy the Moringa Love chain of 48 fastfood
restaurants in the Tokyo metropolitan area from a Moringa and Co. subsidiary and convert them
into franchise hamburger restaurants starting in June. JT declined to disclose the purchase price
of the Moringa Love chain.

The joint company will be capitalized at 490 million yen, which will be equally split between JT
and Grand Metropolitan, and engage in the management of the Burger King brand in Japan. It
will set up a wholly owned subsidiary in April to run the Burger King chain in Japan.

The name of the two companies have yet to be decided, JT said.

RJR00004005705628
70056