February 12, 1997

Dear Legislator:

If you are thinking about raising your state’s cigarette tax, I ask you stop and seriously examine what has happened in New York State -- where the state has been trying to deal with Native Americans selling illegal contraband cigarettes at an alarming rate.

Statistics provided by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and our state's revenue department illustrate the magnitude of this contraband problem:

Analysis of Official Data
Reveals Level of Illegal Sales

New York Revenue Department data show that the per capita legal, tax-paid sales of cigarettes in New York is 70.5 packs a year. But studies by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control indicate that per capita consumption in New York is 97.4 packs, which is just slightly above the national average.

70 packs per person “sold” in N.Y.
97 packs actually consumed in N.Y.

Where are the missing packs coming from? Answer: New Yorkers purchase them illegally. The numbers indicate that today, nearly 27 percent of New York’s entire cigarette market is contraband -- sales that have avoided New York State's high cigarette tax.

A major source for this illegal, tax-free market in our state is the Indian Reservations. At 56 cents per pack, New York’s cigarette tax encourages consumers to buy at Indian smoke shops -- where no cigarette tax is collected and no sales tax is charged. The “savings” to consumers is $6.42 a carton (cigarette tax, plus sales tax). But the "loss" to the state in revenue is enormous -- estimated to be up to $233 million a year -- coupled with a huge loss to the state’s legal retail industry.

By law, this shouldn't have happened. The Supreme Court ruled several years ago that New York State had the authority to regulate Indian sales of cigarettes to non-tribal members. But the regulations have not been enforced. Just today, however, the Governor’s office announced that it would try to reach an agreement with “traditional” state tribes and begin enforcement by April 1.

3/8/97 1:27:5

RJRR000000508034435
70045 2348