4/92
DIALO6(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv.

0505019
EXPORTING DEATH STILL
Oregonian (PO)- Monday, January 5, 1998
By: James Patterson
Section: SUNRISE Section EDITORIAL Page: BO9
TYPE: Column
COLUMN: Reader Forum
1 N

CLUJ-NAPOCA, Romania - Summary:

U.S. government helps companies sell cigarettes to Romanians

There is a conviction that it is Western, glamorous and American to smoke. Meanwhile, the life expectancy of Romanians -- already one of the shortest in Europe -- is decreasing.

Nearly two years ago in this paper I reported on the advertising blitzes
and media campaigns of American cigarette companies here ("Welcome to
Marlboro Country: the new Transylvania", Jan. 25, 1996.)

Interest was expressed by a number of readers, including Sens. Gordon
Smith and Ron Wyden. I suppose I naively hoped some congressional action
would result in cutting back government support for the tobacco industry
overseas. After all, wasn't President Clinton encouraging initiatives to
decrease smoking, especially among youth?

Whatever Congress or the White House may or may not have done, our
tobacco companies’ efforts in Eastern Europe and Romania have reached
phenomenal proportions, and more and more people -- especially the young --
are smoking more than ever before.

We have here a public health epidemic. There is virtually no education
about the dangers of smoking: Even the doctors smoke.

There is a conviction that it is Western, glamorous and American to
smoke. Meanwhile, the life expectancy of Romanians -- already one of the
shortest in Europe -- is decreasing.

We live in Cluj, the beautiful Baroque capital of Transylvania. A
20-minute walk through the center of town revealed the following:

In front of the 14th century Gothic St. Michael’s Church is a Winston
billboard, showing an eagle soaring above the New York skyline, with the
slogan “The Taste of Freedom.”

Behind the church, in a city park beside a statue of Hungarian Pirxes
Matthew Coverlin, Carmel has erected a big sign where free cigarettes
are offered to all.

In front of the tent are two Ranger 4x4s with French plates but



S14 084
RjRO000001017986
File: 00002