Beiräge zur Tabakforschung • Band 9 • Heft 3 • Oktober 1977

Cigarette Smoke Formation Studies

V. The Effects of the Cigarette Periphery on Mainstream Smoke Formation*

By Robert W. Jenkins, Jr., Roger T. Bass, Richard H. Neuman and Marie R. Chatis
Philip Morris Research Center, Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A.

INTRODUCCION

In a recent report, recommendations for the standard-
ized preparation of carbon-14 labelled cigarettes were
made (1). It was shown that the error introduced in
uniformly placing the radioactive label axially within
the filter is also the degree of error reflected in the radio-
activity recovered from total smoke. Cigarettes with large
variations in the axial placement of the label would
require a much larger number of such cigarettes
to determine the total smoke distribution. The data thus
generated are reflective of the average values, but with
a large experimental error. The more uniformly labelled
the cigarette, the smaller the error in the total smoke
distribution.

When radioactivity is not uniformly distributed
radially within the cigarette the smoking of a large
number of cigarettes might not overcome any bias
introduced by such non-uniformity (2, 3). Wakefield
(4) and Orlandi (5) have all theorized about the effect
of the periphery on mainstream smoke formation. To-
day, there is very little experimental evidence to support
these theories. In order to emphasize or supplement
the importance of the tobacco periphery to cigarette
smoke composition, 14C labelled cigarettes were smoked
with uniform and non-uniform radial labelling. Effects
were measured.

3. Sheet-casting Blending: This procedure was used
when materials insoluble in desired solvents. The labelled
them must include some other filter uniformly blended into
material such as Kentucky 1R1 reference filter or
were added at discrete radial positions within the cig-
arette roll (1).

Radiochemicals

Dextroinamine-16,[14C] was purchased from Mal-
inckrodt Nuclear and proline-14C (U) from New Eng-
land Nucleonics. Nicotine-14C (U) and cellulose-14C (U)
were obtained from bio-synthesized Bright tobacco (U).
Glucose-14C (U) was prepared by the trace-
ment of glucose-14C (U) (New England Nuclear) with
invertase. RadioChemical purities in all cases were better
than 98% before application.

Radioactivity Determinations

Appropriate aliquots of the extracted or embattled
samples were counted in a Packard Model 339X simul-
taneous spectrometer (Packard Instrument Company) with
optimized quants and window settings. The procedures
and counts used have been previously described (7).

Cigarette Procedure

II. MATERIALS AND METHODS

1. Cigarette Preparation

A single cigarette type was drawn in all experi-
ments. This was a non-filtered, 9 mm diameter cig-
arette with a tobacco blend of approximately 70% Vir-
ginia and 30% Burley tobaccos.

2. Labelled Tobacco Preparation

The following procedure was used to prepare the
labelled tobaccos:

a. Uniform radial labelling: The labelled compounds
were added to the bulk tobacco as dry powders, mixed
thoroughly, and then sheet-cast into cigarette sheets.

b. Non-uniform radial labelling: The labelled com-
pounds were added to discrete portions of the bulk
tobacco, mixed thoroughly, and then sheet-cast into
cigarette sheets.

The amount of labelled compound added was calcu-
lated to provide approximately 100 µCi per cigarette.

III. RESULTS

A. Total Radioactivity in Mainstream Smoke

Figure 1 shows the total radioactivity recovered
in mainstream smoke from uniform and non-uniform
labelled cigarettes. The data are presented as the mean
plus or minus the standard error of the mean.

Figure 1. Total radioactivity recovered in main-
stream smoke from uniform and non-uniform labelled
cigarettes.

IV. DISCUSSION

The results shown in Figure 1 indicate that there is
a significant difference in the total radioactivity recov-
ered in mainstream smoke from uniform and non-uniform
labelled cigarettes. The data suggest that the periphery
of the cigarette plays an important role in the formation
of mainstream smoke.

V. SUMMARY

The effects of the cigarette periphery on main-
stream smoke formation were investigated using 14C la-
belled cigarettes. The results showed that there is a sig-
nificant difference in the total radioactivity recovered
in mainstream smoke from uniform and non-uniform
labelled cigarettes. This suggests that the periphery of
the cigarette plays an important role in the formation
of mainstream smoke.

* Received July 10, 1976; accepted for publication
September 23, 1977.

LITERATURE REFERENCES

1. Wakefield, G., D. W. McCurley, and J. F. Rusch.
1974. Carbon-14 studies of cigarette smoke composi-
tion. Residue Reviews 5(1): 1-26.

2. A. E. Porter, personal communication.

3. Orlandi, M. A. 1973. Effect of tobacco particle size
on cigarette smoke composition. American Journal of
Public Health 63: 480-484.

4. Wakefield, G. 1975. The effect of cigarette design on
smoke composition. Presented at the International
Conference on Tobacco Diseases, XVI, Paris, France.

5. Orlandi, M. A. 1976. Effect of cigarette filter length
on smoke composition. American Journal of Public
Health 66: 384-388.