† Small Airway Disease: Comparison of Tests in Young
( Smokers Versus Nonsmokers*

GARY N. HARRISON, MD, GARY R. MOOR, BS, JAMES L. MOHLER, AB, and WILLIAM A. SPEIR, JR.,
MD,* Augusta, Ga

ABSTRACT: A number of new tests for detection of small airway disease have been developed in
the past several years. It is hoped that these will prove valuable as screening tests to detect those
at risk of developing obstructive airway disease. We obtained data on the degree of discrimination
of single breath nitrogen studies (CV/VC, CC/TLC, AnL/TL), air-flow studies (Vmax50), and the maximal
midexpiratory flow (FEF25-75%) with detecting abnormalities in young smokers. Only the CV/VC and
CC/TLC significantly separated smokers from nonsmokers, each revealing 20% abnormal values in
smokers.

CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE AIRWAY DISEASE is a serious
health problem in the United States, and no one
doubts that it is intimately associated with chronic
cigarette smoking. According to a 1972 NHLI Task
Force report,* chronic respiratory diseases cost the
people of these United States 6.3 billion dollars in
1970, and cost the lives of 128,102 persons. These
figures have surely escalated during the past ten years.
The major portion of the economic and human cost of
these diseases can be attributed to chronic obstructive
( ) disease.

Ever since Anthonsen et al.* demonstrated
pathophysiologic abnormalities in bronchitic patients
with normal routine lung function tests, the literature
has been rife with speculation concerning path-
k physiologic mechanisms by which disease in “si-
kul” peripheral airways ( < 2 mm in diameter) might
proceed and progress to irreversible airway obstruc-
tion. Many tests have been developed, some of these
have used in this study,* which are purported to de-
tect small airway dysfunction. It is hoped that these
tests will prove valuable as screening tests to detect
those at risk of developing obstructive airway disease.
We obtained data on the degree of discrimination
of single breath nitrogen studies (CV/VC, CC/TLC,
AnL/TL), air-flow studies (Vmax50), and the maxi-
mal midexpiratory flow (FEF25-75%) with detecting
abnormalities in young smokers.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

The study population consisted of 100 male volunteers
aged 18 to 35 years. Fifty were known cigarette smok-
ers and fifty were nonsmokers. Smokers had smoked at
least one pack per day for at least five years. Non-
smokers had never smoked or had smoked less than five
cigarettes in their lifetime. All subjects were free of
clinical respiratory disease, as determined by history,
physical examination, and routine chest roentgenog-
raphy.

Pulmonary function tests were performed according to
standard methods.* The following measurements were
obtained: vital capacity (VC), forced expiratory vol-
ume in one second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC),
maximal midexpiratory flow (FEF25-75%), single
breath nitrogen rebreathing tests (CV/VC, CC/TLC,
AnL/TL), and maximal air-flow studies (Vmax50).

Statistical analysis was performed using the t test to
compare means and chi-square analysis to compare pro-
portions. A p value of less than 0.05 was considered
statistically significant.

RESULTS

The mean age of the smokers was 23.8 ± 4.2 years,
and the mean age of the nonsmokers was 23.2 ± 4.1
years. The difference in age was not statistically sig-
nificant (p > 0.05). Smokers had a history of 9.7 ±
4.8 pack-years of cigarette smoking.

It is clear that the lungs of smokers, even at a rela-
tively young age, are different from those of
nonsmokers. Nieoheuser et al.* studied at autopsy the
lungs of young smokers (aged 23.7 ± 1.2 years), and
accident victims, and compared them to nonsmokers
of the same age. Respiratory bronchiolitis associated
with clusters of pigmented alveolar macrophages was
observed in the peripheral airways of all smokers, but
was only rarely noted in the nonsmokers. In a classic
paper, Ingram and O’Calin demonstrated frequency
dependence of dynamic compliance in a majority of
cigarette smokers, and showed that it disappeared
after cessation of smoking. As Dosman and Macklem*
pointed out in their review, the prevalence of abnor-
malities in this and other tests of small airway dysfunc-
tion is 50% or more averaged 50% or higher. It is
obvious that smokers have disease to not develop
chronic obstructive airways.

Most large-30% are mucus globs a heterogen-
ous group of specimens and nonsmokers, which in-
cluded persons spanning the age range from the sec-
ond to fifth decades of life. The prevalence of abnor-
malities in young smokers is greater than that in non-
smokers, but the degree of difference depends on the
test used.

TABLE 1 summarizes the pulmonary function test re-
sults for smokers and nonsmokers. The CV/VC and
CC/TLC were significantly different between smokers
and nonsmokers (p < 0.01). The AnL/TL, Vmax50,
and FEF25-75% were not significantly different be-
tween the two groups.

DISCUSSION

The results of this study confirm that young cigarette
smokers have abnormal pulmonary function tests com-
pared to nonsmokers. The CV/VC and CC/TLC are
the most useful single breath nitrogen tests for de-
tecting small airway dysfunction in young smokers.
These two tests significantly separated smokers from
nonsmokers, each revealing 20% abnormal values in
smokers.

The FEF25-75% is a commonly used test for detect-
ing small airway disease, but it was not useful in this
study. This may be because the FEF25-75% is af-
fected by large airway obstruction as well as small
airway obstruction.

The Vmax50 is another air-flow study that has been
used to detect small airway disease. It also was not
useful in this study, possibly because it is affected by
both large and small airway obstruction.

This study confirms the importance of screening tests
for detecting small airway dysfunction in young smok-
ers. The CV/VC and CC/TLC are the most useful sin-
gle breath nitrogen tests for this purpose.

REFERENCES

1. Anthonsen, T., Kjellman, B., Lundberg, J., and Unge, T.: Lung function in chronic bronchitis with normal routine spirometry. Scand. J. Respir. Dis., 56:273-280, 1975.
2. Dosman, W. J., and Macklem, P. T.: Abnormalities of respiratory function in cigarette smokers. Can. Med. Assoc. J., 114: 553-558, 1971.
3. Ingram, D. L., and O’Calin, R. A.: Frequency dependence of dynamic compliance in cigarette smokers. J. Appl. PhysioL, 32: 601-604, 1972.
4. Nieoheuser, M. J., Bennett, W. C., Jr., and Muggleton, N. P.: Lung function in young cigarette smokers. Am. J. Med., 58: 311-316, 1975.



00210814