JOURNAL OF APPLIED PHYSIOLOGY
Vol. 36 No. 20 March 1974 Printed in U.S.A.

A 56-73

Effect of carbon monoxide and peroxyacetyl nitrate
on man’s maximal aerobic capacity

P. B. RAVEN, B. L. DRINKWATER, R. O. RUHLING, N. BOLDUAN,
S. TAGUCHI, J. GLINER, AND S. M. HORVATH
Institute of Environmental Stress, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 93106

RAVEN, P. B., B. L. DRINKWATER, R. O. RUHLING, N. BOLDUAN,
S. TAGUCHI, J. GLINER, and S. M. HORVATH. Effect of carbon
monoxide and peroxyacetyl nitrate on man’s maximal aerobic capacity.
Appl. Physiol. 36(2):289-293. 1974.—Metabolic, temperature,
and cardiovascular responses of 20 healthy male (10 smokers
and 10 nonsmokers) were monitored while working to their
maximum and breathing four different gas mixtures at 25 ±
0.5°C and relative humidity of 56 ± 3%. The air for the mixtures
were filtered air (FA), 50 ppm carbon monoxide in filtered air
(CO), 0.27 ppm peroxyacetyl nitrate in filtered air (PAN), and a
combination of CO and PAN (CO-PAN). There were no
significant decrement in obtained VO2 max for either group during
exposure to the FA, CO or PAN mixtures alone compared with the
filtered air mixture (P > 0.05). Some minor and transient altera-
tions were found in the initial stages of work regarding ventilatory
efficiency when breathing 50 ppm carbon monoxide. Smokers
had significantly higher resting carbonoxyhemoglobin levels than
nonsmokers, 3.1 ± 0.7 vs. 0.6 ± 0.2%, respectively, which remained
greater following exercise when exposure gas mixtures for determination
of PAN and PANCO. Increases in carboxyhemoglobin levels
accompanying had greater PANCO exposure were observed.
Carbon monoxide has been shown to impair oxygen transport.
Nonsmokers had VO2 max 208 ± 17 ml/kg/min compared with
smokers, 192 ± 15 ml/kg/min (P < 0.03). The difference in
VO2 max were similar when the nonsmokers breathed the CO-PAN
mixture. It is concluded that acute exposure to 50 ppm carbon
monoxide and 0.27 ppm peroxyacetyl nitrate does not significantly
affect man’s maximal aerobic capacity, although transient changes
in ventilatory efficiency may occur.

EFFECTS OF GASES ON OXYGEN UPTAKE

The effects of air pollutants on the metabolic or thermoregulatory responses
of individuals engaged in progressive exercise due to maximum
aerobic capacity. This study was designed to determine the effect
of air pollutants, specifically CO and PAN, on man’s
maximum aerobic capacity.

METHODS

The subjects were 20 healthy male volunteers, aged
21-50 yr., equally divided into two groups, smokers and
nonsmokers. A preliminary examination incorporating a
resting 12-lead electrocardiogram, pulmonary function
evaluation, and an exercise electrocardiogram was per-
formed on each subject prior to the determination of his
maximum aerobic capacity (VO2 max) under different con-
ditions. A resting blood sample was taken during
determination the physical examination for determination
of carboxyhemoglobin levels and confirmation of the classi-
fication of the subject as a smoker or nonsmoker. Table 1
presents mean data age, height, weight, and resting
exercise electrocardiogram evaluation of all subjects. All
physical signioritic events of the hemoglobin. Exposure to
the four ambient pollutant concentrations were applied
in a randomized order with a minimum of 48 hr. between
tests to eliminate carryover effects. The subjects breathed
each gas mixture for 10 min prior to beginning exercise.
Exercise began with walking on a motor-driven treadmill
at a speed of 2.0 mph with a grade of 0% and was
increased by 2% every 3 min until exhaustion. Oxygen
consumption was measured continuously throughout each
exercise test using a commercially available metabolic
measurement system (Model MK II, Aerograph Co.,
Philadelphia, Pa.). Ventilation was monitored using a
pneumotachometer (Model GR1400, Aeromedics Inc.,
Cupertino, Calif.) and recorded on a Honeywell recorder.

RESULTS

The results of this study are presented in Tables 2 and 3.
There were no significant differences in VO2 max between the
smokers and nonsmokers breathing FA, CO or PAN alone
(P > 0.05). However, there was a statistically significant
difference (P < 0.03) in VO2 max between smokers and
nonsmokers when they breathed the CO-PAN mixture. The
mean resting carboxyhemoglobin levels were significantly
higher in the smokers than in the nonsmokers (Table 2).

DISCUSSION

The results of this study indicate that acute exposure to
50 ppm carbon monoxide and 0.27 ppm peroxyacetyl nitrate
does not significantly affect man’s maximal aerobic capacity,
although transient changes in ventilatory efficiency may occur.

RECEIVED FOR PUBLICATION December 3, 1973

REPRINT REQUESTS: Dr. W. Wakeham, Institute of Environmental Stress, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 93106