Journal of Chromatography, 160 (1978) 155–168
© Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company, Amsterdam – Printed in The Netherlands

CHROM. 11,000

QUANTITATIVE GAS CHROMATOGRAPHIC METHOD FOR THE ANAL-
YSIS OF ALIPHATIC HYDROCARBONS, TERPENES, FATTY ALCOHOLS,
FATTY ACIDS AND STEROIDS IN TOBACCO

R. F. SEVERSON*, J. I. ELLINGTON, R. F. ARRENDALE and M. E. SNOOK
Tobacco Laboratory, Science and Education Administration-Federal Research, U.S. Department
of Agriculture, P.O. Box 5677, Athens, Ga. 30604 (U.S.A.)
(Received March 28th, 1978)

SUMMARY

A rapid and reproducible method is described for the analysis of the major
tobacco lipids, including the C4–C24 paraffinic hydrocarbons, neophytadiene, phytol,
docosanols, squalene, tocopherols, β-amyrin, cycloartenol, 24-methyleneecleco-
artanol, palmitic acid, stearic acid, the unsaturate d C26 acids, cholesterol, stigmasterol,
campesterol, sitosterol and solanosterol. The method is based upon the hexane-column
silice gel chromatography of saponified lipids from a hexane extract of tobacco.
The free fatty acids are separated into non-polar, polar and terpenoid fractions and quanti-
fied by gas chromatography, with the use of internal standards. The applicability
of the method has been demonstrated by the highly reproducible analyses of a cigarette
blend, conventional flue-cured tobaccos and two close-grown tobaccos. The method
should also be applicable to analyses of lipids in other natural products, including
foodstuffs.

INTRODUCTION

Many of the components in the hexane-soluble fraction of tobacco, the so-
called tobacco lipids, and their pyrolysis products contribute to the flavor and aroma
of tobacco smoke¹. Also, pyrolysis studies have shown that the hexane-soluble com-
ponents in tobacco are major precursors of the tumorigenic polynuclear aromatic
hydrocarbons in tobacco smoke². Consequently, our laboratory has been involved
in developing rapid and reproducible methods for the quantitation of the major
lipid components in tobacco. Chorly et al.³ developed a method utilizing silice gel
and gas chromatography (GC) for the determination of the paraffinic hydrocarbons
and neophytadiene in leaf and stem. Ellingon et al.⁴ used ion-exchange chromatog-
raphy and GC to analyze tocopherols at C13 to C20 chain lengths. Scholten⁵
noted that “until thin-layer chromatography is applied to the separation of tobacco
lipids, a complete analysis of tobacco lipids remains elusive”. Therefore, we ex-
tensively studied a modified silice gel chromatographic system for the separation of
tobacco lipids.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Plant Material

Conventional flue-cured and close-grown tobaccos were obtained from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture Tobacco Research Station, Durham, N.C. A cigarette blend
was prepared by mixing 70% Burley and 30% Virginia tobacco.

Reagents

Hexane, redistilled; n-hexane: diethyl ether (95:5), v/v; concentrated sulfuric
acid; potassium hydroxide; ethanol, absolute; methanol, absolute; benzene, spectro-
photometric grade; cholesterol, tributyrin, β-carotene, stigmasterol, campesterol,
sitosterol and solanosterol were all obtained from Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis,
Mo.

Extraction Procedure

Approximately 50 g of tobacco leaf material was ground to a fine powder with a
Willye homogenizer. The powdered tobacco was then extracted three times with 200 ml
of redistilled hexane in a Soxhlet extractor for 16 h. The combined extracts were
concentrated under reduced pressure at 40°C, and the residue was dissolved in
hexane to give a final volume of 100 ml.

Saponification

A 2-ml aliquot of the hexane extract was saponified by adding 2 ml of 2 N ethanolic
potassium hydroxide. The mixture was refluxed for 30 min, cooled, and then
neutralized with 2 ml of concentrated sulfuric acid. The resulting solution was diluted
to 25 ml with hexane.

Chromatographic Separation

A portion (10 μl) of the saponified lipid extract was applied to a silica gel column
(90 cm × 1.6 cm i.d.) packed with 70 g of Linde A-grade silice gel, particle size
40–63 μm. The column was eluted with hexane for 15 min, followed by a linear
gradient from n-hexane:diethyl ether (95:5) to n-hexane:diethyl ether (85:15), v/v,
over 60 min at a flow rate of 2.4 ml/min. Fractions of 3.7 ml were collected.

Gas Chromatography

A portion (1 μl) of each fraction was analyzed by gas chromatography on a packed
column (2 m × 3 mm i.d.) using a DCQ-01 detector. The column was coated with
1% OV-1 on 80–100 mesh chromosorb WA. The oven temperature was programmed
from 170°C to 240°C at 5°C/min, with an initial hold time of 5 min at 170°C.
Carrier gas flow rate was 60 ml/min and detector flow rates were 120 ml/min for
nitrogen and 180 ml/min for hydrogen.

Identification and Quantitation

The components in the fractions were identified by comparison of their retention times
with those of authentic samples. The amounts of each component were determined by
comparing peak areas with those of internal standards, cholesterol, tributyrin and β-carotene.



100356971