Page 23

MEDICAL TRIBUNE
August 31, 1964

The Tobacco Research Report

THE REPORT of the scientific director of the Council for Tobacco Research (see page 3) has been released with relish by the press, and distorted conclusions drawn. We believe that some of the experiments made by Clarence Cook Little, Sc.D., do not measure up to the high scientific standards he sets in the opening chapter of his report. And we are appalled by what the Council has done with cautious and unexceptionable remarks.

Dr. Little reviews the experimental studies supported by the Council’s grants testing whether tobacco smoke might have activity as a direct-cancer carcinogen.

He concludes: “The over-all impression gained from these many bioassay studies is that tobacco smoke is in active or of extremely minor activity in these several artificial systems, none of which reproduce actual human conditions.”

The study lends little support to the hypothesis that cigarette smoke acts as a direct-cancer carcinogen in the human lung. It would not continue to be under hypothetical modes of action.

The experimental systems used for bioassay of tobacco smoke and its components are indeed artificial and it is dangerous to question their proper use as a method to ascertain whether cigarette smoke acts as a direct-cancer carcinogen. The Council’s conclusion that the experiments do not support this hypothesis, however, is an overstatement.

It is true that there is no evidence that tobacco smoke causes cancer directly. But there is abundant evidence that it contributes to the development of cancer indirectly by damaging the lungs and increasing susceptibility to other cancer-causing agents.

The report states that lung cancer is the leading cause of death in this country. In 1962, deaths attributed to all cancers totaled 278,562. Of these, 30,376 deaths from lung cancer numbered second. A very rapid calculation shows that one out of every seven cancer deaths due to lung cancer. Is this rare?

Dr. Little also makes much of the following: “Although the actual number of deaths from lung cancer is increasing because of population growth and because of larger numbers of persons in the high age groups, the rate of increase in the age-corrected death rate has been slowing down since 1950. This declining rate of increase, viewed in light of actual and per capita consumption of cigarettes during this period, raises a serious question concerning the validity of the simple causation theory and demonstrates the need for continued study and observation.”

There was about a ninefold increase in the age-adjusted mortality for cancer of the lung between 1950 and 1960. A casual glance at tables of vital statistics suggests that if the reported rate of increase between 1950 and 1953 had continued as such for the next seven years, the number of deaths from lung cancer in 1960 would have been about 11 or 12 times that of 1950. Dr. Little seems to be saying that this rate of increase “is not surprising,” but we disagree with his analysis. It is difficult to imagine a more rapidly rising death rate than that observed for cancer of the lung, especially in view of the fact that the incidence of other major forms of cancer has been relatively stable.

The report also states: “It is possible that some factor or factors other than cigarette smoking may be responsible for this decline in the age-corrected death rate.” It would be more logical to assume that the declining rate of increase is due to a decrease in the number of persons who smoke cigarettes.