Uncertainties in clinical diagnosis were enumerated with bronchial asthma, bronchopulmonary tuberculosis, chronic bronchitis, chronic tracheo-bronchitis, laryngitis, recurrent paraiysis, pulmonary neoplasms, etc.

BOUSSEL, J., et al, Société Française de Radiologie Nucléaire, Nancy.
“Etude comparative des techniques,” p. 32-39. (Journal of Nuclear Medicine,
"The role of localization in the diagnosis," p. 155-166, 1969;
d’Electrologie et de Médecine Nucléaire 50/3:).

abstracted in English.

Summary: The authors report on 220 new cases of the oro-pharyngo-laryngeal region, including 123 women. For some sites -- floor of the mouth and epiglottis (2 cases each) -- the same
lesions are observed more frequently in men than in women.
Squamous cell carcinomas are found in 198 cases.

GARDINER, D.W., Jr., Milsom, I., Murphy, P.C., Hopkins, Kenneth P.,
and Brawley, J.L., Memphis, Tennessee; University of Tennessee,
Memphis.

“Squamous Papilloma: A cytological and pathological study in a large
population.” (Archives of Otolaryngology 92/5: 430-456, November 1970)

abstracted.

The etiology of epidermoid carcinomas in the mouth is unknown
and it is difficult to determine whether they are due to one or more
more commonly mentioned causes; however, are trauma from ill-fitting
dentures, tobacco use, alcohol consumption, and physical injury.
This paper is this report of a cytological study of such lesions with special
emphasis on the role of the oral cavity.

A population of 15,800 snuff-users was observed by cytological,
histological, and clinical means. Only one circumscribed area of the
oral cavity was studied. In addition, the nicotine content of the
blood of patients who were long-time snuff-users was compared these findings
to the nicotine serum content of the healthy smoker. We found from this study
that the nicotine serum content is lower than the blood nicotine levels are
higher in the snuff-user.

The “snuff-user” may be considered as a current body use, if an
individual has used snuff for 10 years or more. It can be considered as
for many years with no clinical or histological evidence of tissue change.

For some patients who do not smoke or use snuff, there is no clinical
evidence of tissue change.

(See also: “A comparison of the effects of tobacco and snuff on the
oral mucosa,” p. 457-463.)

HINSHAW, M.L., and KRAMER, R.J., New York, New York; Columbia
University, College of Physicians and Surgeons.

“The effect of smoking on the oral cavity.” (Archives of Otolaryngology
92/5: 464-471, November 1970) abstracted.

Summary: The effects of cigarette smoking on the oral cavity were
studied in 238 patients who had smoked for at least 10 years.
The most common findings were leukoplakia, stomatitis, and telangiectasia.
There was a significant correlation between the number of cigarettes smoked
daily and the severity of the changes observed.

JENSEN, O.E., and LAURSEN, L., Copenhagen, Denmark; Rigshospitalet.

“Roentgenographic diagnosis of tumors in the oral cavity.” (Acta Radiologica
92/3: 245-251, May 1970) abstracted.

Summary: The authors present a roentgenographic study of 68 patients
with tumors in the oral cavity. They emphasize the importance of careful
examination of the teeth and surrounding tissues.

KRAMER, R.J., et al. “A comparison of the effects of tobacco and snuff on
the oral mucosa,” p. 457-463. (Archives of Otolaryngology 92/5, November 1970)

abstracted.

Summary: The authors report on a study comparing the effects of
tobacco and snuff on the oral mucosa. They found that snuff was more likely
to cause leukoplakia than tobacco.

10504136