new york state journal
714-718 March 15, 1955

Cardiovascular Health Center—II

First Year’s Operation

A. General Observations and Hypertension

GEORGE JAMES, M.D., HERMAN E. HILLEBOE, M.D., JOHN P. FILIPONE, M.D., AND JOSEPH T.
DOYLE, M.D., ALBANY, NEW YORK

(From the New York State Department of Health and the Albany Medical College)

A previous report¹ the objectives, plan, and development of the Cardiovascular Health Center have been presented in detail. Devised primarily as a program for research in coronary heart disease and hypertension, the basic project consists of the periodic appraisal of the cardiovascular status of over 2,000 male State employees in the Albany area who are between the ages of forty and fifty-five. The testing procedures consist of a complete history, a physical examination, a 12-lead electrocardiogram and a Starr ballistocardiogram at rest and after a standard exercise test, posteroanterior and lateral x-ray films of the chest (IA by 17 inches), measurement of the blood cholesterol level, urinals, hemoglobin determination, and a serologic test for syphilis.

The main purpose of the study is the attempt to discover those signs which are indicative of preclinical coronary heart disease and hypertension. The periodic nature of the testing program of this group of “susceptibles” will give longitudinal observations on individuals who retrospectively develop heart disease. It is hoped that a representative study of the clinical and laboratory findings of such persons will indicate certain data which can assist us in diagnosis and those with preclinical coronary heart disease and hypertension. The early nature of the proper measure, the preclinical signs of the disease may offer a practical method for its prompt or postponement of these degenerative conditions.

In addition, one of the basic objectives of the Cardiovascular Health Center is to serve as a model for other communities interested in establishing similar programs. This report summarizes our experience during the first year of operation.

Methods

The study population consists of 2,348 male State employees who were selected from five Albany offices. The men were chosen at random from the personnel files and invited to participate in the study. Of those invited, 1,957 (83.2 per cent) agreed to cooperate. The ages ranged from forty to fifty-five years, with a mean age of forty-six point two years.

The testing procedures are applied in our mobile unit, which is equipped for electrocardiography, ballistocardiography, and chest x-ray. A treadmill is used for the exercise test.

Fig. 1. Treadmill being used for exercise test at the Cardiovascular Health Center.

Research in also participating in this special heart research on testing procedures.

Notes on Testing Procedure

The testing procedures are described in the paper “Testing Procedures for the Cardiovascular Health Center,” to follow shortly. Two men must be comfortably exercised together using virtually the same treadmill slope and speed. The exercise test is performed until exhaustion or until the subject requests cessation. The time is recorded in seconds, and the distance covered is measured in feet.

The ballistocardiogram is obtained with the subject lying supine on a table. The electrocardiogram is recorded simultaneously with the ballistocardiogram.




10530009