284 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

settle the question definitively. However, evidence from Comstock’s extensive medical exam unlikely).
As to availability of medical care, espe- policy was initiated was associated with experience
cially hospitalization, it is a fact that only rate, compared with experience among policies not subjected to have had
a small part of veterans' hospital utiliza- intermittent trace of albumin, but who
tion has been provided by the VA. The were insured for 15 years with partial dis-
Center for Health Statistics has estimated ability (15% of those known previously),
that during the period 1970-1973, of the 24 had a rate of 23. This is not surprising,
million veterans, 1.8 million were ad- but it follows that if, through
mitted to hospitals. Of these, 2.4 mil- careful selection, those with high mor-
lion visits only, and less than 1% went tality are screened out, then the
went to any Federal hospital (1). Since so residual group will show low mortality.
small a proportion of hospitalization of It may be that our results do not show degree
veterans was provided by the VA, it is may have been affected by the factors that
difficult to believe that the VA services we have mentioned, and that we are correct to
could could have had a large effect on the believe that medical selection through the
mortality experience of veterans. induction physical examination made the
It is well known that mortality rates are most important contribution.
higher among persons of lower socioeco-
nomic status. It is possible that the pro- REFERENCES
vision of educational benefits under the 1. Unpublished data from the Health Interview Sur-
G.I. Bill raised the socioeconomic status vey, National Center for Health Statistics, Depart-
of many veterans in general, so that ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
speculative as is the influence that such The Study of Recent Immunization Trends. Stat-
changes might have had on mortality rates. istical Series No. 146.
ience.
The rate of effect on survival exanima- Act of Cani., C. 1968
tion has been known to tilt life insurance
rates, and it is likely that the effects of
the G.I. Bill have been similar. It is a fact
that those who were insured when the

285

policy was initiated had a rate of 0.7% per
year, compared with experience among policies
not subjected to medical examination. Those
who were insured for 15 years with partial dis-
ability (15% of those known previously), had
a rate of 23. This is not surprising, but it
follows that if, through careful selection, those
with high mortality are screened out, then the
residual group will show low mortality.

Harry C. Sauer
Harvard School of Public Health
Boston, Massachusetts

[Received for publication August 10, 1974]

*From the National Center for Health Statistics,
Public Health Service, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare.*

286 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

To the Editor: We have read with interest
the article by Mr. James F. Zeller and asso-
ciates in the June 1974 issue of The New
England Journal of Medicine (1) on the
subject of mortality among Korean War veter-
ans. We agree that the data presented are
impressive, but we have some questions con-
cerning the interpretation of the results.

The authors state that “the most striking
finding was the unexpectedly high mortality
rate among veterans who had been rejected
from military service because of medical
conditions.” They suggest that this finding
may be due to the fact that these men were
“more likely to have underlying disease or
disability.” We believe that a more plausible
explanation is that the mortality rate was
artificially elevated by the inclusion of men
who had been rejected from military service
because of conditions that would have made
them unsuitable for military duty, but that
would not necessarily have been life-threaten-
ing.

For example, many men were rejected
from military service because they had a
history of asthma, diabetes, or heart disease.
These conditions are often well controlled
with medication and lifestyle changes, and
they do not necessarily lead to premature
death. However, if these men were included
in the mortality study, their presence would
artificially inflate the overall mortality rate.

We also believe that the authors’ conclu-
sion that “the induction physical examination
made the most important contribution” is
premature. It is possible that other factors,
such as socioeconomic status or lifestyle
choices, may have played a more significant
role in determining the mortality rates of
these men.

Finally, we would like to comment on the
authors’ use of the term “Korean War veter-
ans.” As far as we are aware, there were no
veterans of the Korean War who had not
served in the military. Therefore, it is con-
fusing to refer to men who were rejected from
military service as “Korean War veterans.”

REFERENCES

1. Zeller, James F., et al. Mortality among Korean
War veterans. N Engl J Med 290:1537-1542,
1974.

Martin L. Starger, M.D.
Medical Director
Veterans Administration Hospital
Brockton, Massachusetts

[Received for publication August 10, 1974]



