1621018

From: Pulmonary Toxicology of Respirable
Particles. C.I. Sanders et al., Eds.
(Proceedings of the 14th Annual Harvard Life
Sciences Symposium at Woods Hole, Mass. 1996)
Technical Information Center, U.S. Dept. Energy

The Dosimetry and Distribution of
Cigarette Smoke Particulate Inhaled
of Mice: Comparison of a Large Smoke-Exposure
Machine (SEM) with a Small-Capacity
Smoke-Exposure Machine (Walton)

C.J. HENRY*, E. WHITINGHE+, A. LOPEZ†, D.R. DANSIE†,
C.B. NEWMAN*, J.A. STOKLEY‡, R.W. HOELBERG†,
M.R. GUERIN† and R.E. KOURI*

*Department of Experimental Oncology and †Department of Biochemical
Oncology, Microbiological Associates, Berlanda, Maryland; ‡Environmental
Chemistry Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee

ABSTRACT

The deposition and the external distribution of particulate matter (TPM) of
cigarette smoke were measured under conditions of whole-body exposure in
mice. Two different smoke-exposure systems were used: a large-capacity
smoke machine (SEM, 31 L) is a large-speed (140 m/s) dynamic system in
which smoke is drawn through the nose and mouth; a small-capacity system is
a modified version of the Walton system with a 2.9 L/min flow rate. Mice are restrained about the neck in 16x17x7” boxes for
whole-body exposure. The SEM was used to generate smoke at two different
small-capacity (12 to 20 mice) rates, and the Walton smoke is introduced into
a modified version of the Walton system. Both machines were operated under
controlled conditions: temperature (23 ± 1°C), relative humidity (56 ± 8%),
puff frequency (one puff per second), and butt length of cigarette (23 mm).
The TPM mass concentration was measured by a tapered impactor to determine the
deposition of TPM in mice during one brief exposure to smoke. When the
Walton system was used, the TPM mass concentration was 140 µg/m³ with
a particle size distribution that included particles as small as 0.25 µm. The SEM
was used to generate smoke at a high flow rate, and isonicrh. The distribution of TPM
in the lungs of mice exposed to cigarette smoke was determined by measuring
the TPM mass concentration in each lung region. The TPM mass concentration
at the alveolar level was not significantly different between the two exposure
systems (SEM and Walton).

Received 17 December 1995; accepted 23 January 1996.

Environ Health Perspect. 1996;104:311-318