132

Cardiopulmonary Effects of Tobacco and Related Substances

II. Coronary Vascular Effects of Cigarette Smoke and Nicotine

LOUIS E. FOLLEK, MD; MILAN SAMANE, MD; AND DONALD M. AVIADO, MD PHILADELPHIA

THE CONCLUSIONS derived from experiments using nicotine have been cautiously extended to cigarette smoke because it is specially true for the effects of tobacco on the coronary circulation that only a limited amount of experiments pertain directly to cigarette smoke itself; but there are numerous experiments using nic- otine.

In the human subject, the inhalation of cigarette smoke has been reported to either increase or decrease coronary blood flow. The increase noted by Barger et al.’ was attributed to release of epinephrine; the decrease noted by Davis et al.3 was ex- plained as due to a vagal effect. In contradiction to peripheral effects of nic- otine, it is apparent that cigarette smoke in constriction so that any observed increase in coronary blood flow during nicotine must depend on an action outside of the heart.

Almost all of the reported experiments in man have shown an increase in coronary blood flow following an intervention, but either intravenously or by direct injection into the coronary arteries. The effect of cigarette smoke has been less clear because it is difficult to measure changes in coronary blood flow until after the inhalation of cigarette smoke has begun. The inhibition of coronary blood flow that occurs during cigarette smoking is known to be associated with a transient rise in systolic arterial pressure and an increase in respiratory rate. It is possible that the observed effects are due to a combination of factors, including (a) direct effects of nicotine on the coronary vessels; (b) reflex changes in heart rate and vascular tone; (c) effects of allowing blood exposed to cigarette smoke to reach the entire animal through the pulmonary circulation; and (d) comparative sensitivity.

METHODS

Dogs under anesthesia (2 mg/kg) and chloralose (30 mg/kg) were tracheotomized and endotracheally ventilated with a mixture of oxygen and nitrous oxide. A pressure-sensitive catheter was inserted in the left lower jaw artery to measure arterial blood pressure. The heart rate was monitored by means of an electrocardiograph. The venous outflow from the right ventricle was cannulated with a polyethylene catheter. The left lower lobe was cannulaled to collect all inspired air, which was then mixed with the reservoir gas. Figure 1 shows how a metal cannula was attached to the left lower lobe in order to measure the volume of air that entered the orifice.

(Continued on page 134)