Ann. H.y. Med. Co. 9(2):130-141. 1969

HK28171087

TOBACCO HYPERSENSITIVITY

Vincent J. Fontana
Department of Pediatrics, Yale University Medical
Center, New Haven, Connecticut.

In the past thirty years, particularly in the last several years, the possibility
that tobacco or its products might be a cause of allergic disease has been raised.
The question of whether allergy to tobacco does occur and, if it
does, how it is associated with recognizable peripheral vascular
symptoms, remains to be answered. The reports of von Pirquet and
the reports of Harkawy et al., about 30 years ago, were the first to indicate that a
reaction could occur in children following exposure to tobacco. This reaction did
seen especially in Haemophilus influenzae carriers. On the other hand, reports
by Cooke and by Blackley and Wright suggested that the attention that the skin reaction produced by tobacco failed was a specific re-
sponse designating a sensitization process of the blood vessels.

Further study of these and findings by competent investigations in the field
demanded a reappraisal of the sensitizing potential of the allergen, tobacco, on
the vascular system and an attempt to determine the significance and signifi-
cance of the positive intradermal reactions to tobacco. Many of the
reports have been based on studies involving adults and children,
including adults and children, tested with 5 different tobacco extracts.
Approximately 10% of these individuals showed a positive reaction
in relation to personal allergy, familial allergy, symptoms related
to tobacco smoking, peripheral vascular symptoms and automatic
reading of surface temperature.

While the observations of Salberger, Harkawy, and others have verified
the immunologic specificity of the skin reaction to tobacco, the clinical signifi-
cance of these reactions is not always clear. It must be admitted
that certain difficulties are encountered in using any type of skin test as a
means of diagnosis. The more important factors that must be considered in
evaluating a positive intradermal reaction include the preparation and relia-
bility of the extracts, the method of testing, the importance of the reaction in
relation to other findings, and the possibility of a positive reaction in
a single individual, the patient’s history. The skin position used to the
patient's history. The skin reactions are usually obtained when tests are
taken in the performance of the intradermal test and in the interpretation of all
skin tests. It is important that the physician be aware of the limitations
of these tests and that he use them with caution, particularly in children.

The purpose of this study is to review the literature on tobacco hypersensitivity
and to present our observations regarding reactions of peripheral vascular
symptoms in relation to tobacco allergy. We are grateful for the
assistance of Miss Mary Jane D’Ambrosio and Mr. Robert J.
DeLuca in the collection and analysis of data.