HKW21WO84

ANALYTICAL BIOCHEMISTRY 82, 602-608 (1978)

Rev.

Degradation of Tropoelastin by Proteases

PAUL CHRISTNER,* GERMAINE WEIRMAN,* BRUCE SLOAN,* AND
JOEL ROSENBLOOM*

*Center for Oral Health Research, Department of Anatomy and Radiology, Schools of Dental
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, and *Institute for
Disease Prevention, Albert Einstein Medical Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19141
Received December 13, 1977; accepted March 17, 1978

A simple assay is described which is capable of detecting single strands in purified
radioactively labeled tropoelastin after incubation with dilute solutions of
proteases. The assay utilizes a monoclonal antibody affinity column and a variety of proteases, including trypsin and pancreatic elastase, at physiologic
pH. Degradation of tropoelastin by these enzymes yields fragments of
tropoelastin or other related biosynthetic intermediates may play a role in the
pathogenesis of emphysema.

The connective tissue protein elastin is largely responsible for maintaining the elasticity of major blood vessels and lung tissue. In the highly
insoluble elastin, the polypeptide chains are extensively cross-linked
by desmosine and isodesmosine residues (1). The formation of these
oxidations of lysine residues (1-5). A single polypeptide, designated tropoelastin, with a molecular weight of about 48,000, is an intermediate in
the biosynthesis of the fiber (6-10). Although recent evidence suggests that a larger molecular weight precursor may also exist
(11), relatively little has focused on the role of proteolytic enzymes, particularly leukocyte elastase, in the pathogenesis of chronic emphysema. The major emphasis has been on the destruction of mature elastic fiber
by administered proteases, and in these systems there is a strong correlation between the severity of elastin degradation and the degree of elastin (12, 13). However, in man the development of emphysema is a
complex process involving many factors, during which time
there may be periodic destruction of pulmonary alveolar tissue. Such
considerations suggest that interruption or repair of tropoelastin biodegradation may play a significant role in emphysema development.

As a first step in exploring this possibility, we have developed a simple
assay which is capable of detecting a single strand in the tropoelastin
polypeptide chain and measuring the sensitivity of tropoelastin to a
group of proteases.

(Fig. 1)