ANNAL N. Y. ACADEMY OF SCIENCES VOL. 72 ART. 12
553-576 FEB 6, 1979

MYOCARDIAL EFFICIENCY

R. J. Bing and G. Michai

Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine and the Washington
University Medical Service, Barnes Hospital, St. Louis, Mo.

Faithful adherence to the topic of heart efficiency would lead to a discussion
of dynamic events such as resistance, flow, and pressure. The following
paragraphs, however, are restricted to a review of two factors that influence
the calculation of myocardial efficiency: anaerobic metabolism (glycolysis)
and oxygen consumption of the non-working heart. The final portions of the
paper are devoted to a discussion of myocardial energy utilization.

The efficiency of the heart can be determined by the ratio of the thermal
equivalent of the work performed to the heat liberated. Therefore, it can
be indirectly calculated by comparing the work performed with the latter
oxygen usage. The former is synonymous with energy utilization; the latter
represents total energy production.’ Determinations of myocardial efficiency
from the oxygen consumption of the heart cannot be made unless one is sure
that anaerobic glycolysis heart muscle is absent. An additional difficulty
in the calculation of myocardial efficiency arises from the fact that these
calculations are valid only so long as the energy produced, aside from being
degraded into heat, is utilized exclusively for “useful” work.” This represents
only the mechanical work expended by the heart in overcoming resistance to
the systemic and pulmonary circulation and in imparting momentum to the
blood stream. Therefore, a knowledge of the oxygen consumption of the heart
is essential in the determination of myocardial efficiency.

In the presence of constant external work, the efficiency of the beating heart
depends to a large extent on the oxygen consumption of the resting organ.
The distribution of coronary area has made it possible to study the
metabolism of the heart in blood-let animals and in man.’ These studies
have indicated that fatty acids furnish the greatest contribution to the total
energy production of carbohydrates and fasting state, the relationship between
the blood glucose and fat metabolism is not always clear. In adult dogs, total
production is about 1 to 3%. The heart can use carbohydrate as a source of
energy in general.* However, the bulk of utilization of the heart occurs; for
example, carbohydrate glycolysis normally and fatty acids as neutral fats.
The results of one study at a given time suggest that the heart is using
no carbohydrates whatsoever.” This is not always the case, however, as
other studies have shown that the heart can use glucose in considerable amounts
when it is available.

The metabolism of the non-working heart is also important in the calculation
of myocardial efficiency. The oxygen consumption of the resting heart is about
3 to 4 ml per kilogram per minute in the dog and approximately 5 to 6 ml
per kilogram per minute in man. This value represents the energy required
for maintaining the ionic balance across the cell membrane, for active transport
processes, and for other metabolic activities.