Clin. Res. 69:206-210, Feb. 1965

Experimental
and laboratory reports

Elevation of serum cholesterol
after administration of nicotine

Alfred Krelstein, M.D.*
Samuel Better, B.S.**
Rowan Khariandan, M.D.***
Philadelphia, Pa.

earlier studies have shown
effect of association between cigarette
smoking and elevated serum lipids¹² and
between cigarette smoking and ele-
vated serum lipids.³ To help determine
whether the cause-and-effect relationship
is responsible for these associations, we
have studied the effects of nicotine on
nicotine on lipid metabolism were undertaken.

Previous observations in our labora-
tory have shown that free intravenous injections
are rapidly mobilized after cigarette smok-
ing in man and after the administration of
nicotine to dogs. This effect is dependent
upon active functioning of the adrenal
glands and is accompanied by an increase
in the secretion of catecholamines. Since
the administration of nicotine to unanesthetized
dogs has been found to cause an elevation
of serum free fatty acids, we were
likely to investigate the present study to free
taken to determine whether this effect is
similar effect on lipoprotein levels after
the administer of nicotine.

*Institute for Research in Heart Disease, Philadelphia General Hospital,
Philadelphia, Pa.
**Department of Medicine, Temple University School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, Pa.
***Institute for Research in Heart Disease, Philadelphia General Hospital,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Supported by grants from the United States Public Health Service,
No. H-3957 (A.K.) and No. H-3960 (R.K.).
Received for publication July 24, 1964.

Methods

Twenty adult, healthy, mongrel dogs
(weight 10 to 15 kilograms) were used
in this study. They were housed indoors
in individual kennels under similar
environmental condition. Each animal
was fed once daily at 9 A.M. The daily
ration consisted of the same food and con-
sisted of the following: Wayne’s dry meal
dog food (Purina Laboratories, St. Louis),
Isobl-Burger dog food (to large standard-
ized measure) and bone meal (one cup).
This mixture supplied 20% protein,
7 per cent fat, 3 per cent .65 per cent
minerals. Water was given freely. All dogs were
weighed weekly. They were not permitted
outside their kennels except for
blood sampling and weighing.

To obtain base-line serum cholesterol
and triglyceride levels, fasting blood
samples were taken daily for 1 week.
After this, the animals received vitamin
in a 50% corn aqueous vehicle, 2 per cent



