Life Sciences, Vol. 21, pp. 1447-1456 Pergamon Press
Printed in the U.S.A.

1538

TISSUE AND SUBCELLULAR DISTRIBUTION OF ³H-DIOXANE IN
THE RAT AND APPARENT LACK OF MICROSOME-CATALYZED
COVALENT BINDING IN THE TARGET TISSUE

Yin-tak Woo, Mary F. Argus and Joseph C. Arcos

Seamen’s Memorial Research Laboratory, VAHS Hospital,
210 State St., New Orleans, LA 70118
and Department of Medicine, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA

(Received in final form September 26, 1977)

Summary

Using ³H-dioxane, the distribution of dioxane among a num-
ber of tissues and various subcellular fractions of rat liver was
studied at various times after i.p. injection. Dioxane was found
to distribute more or less uniformly among various tissues (liver,
kidney, spleen, lung, colon and skeletal muscle) and to exhibit
tie polar/nonpolar nature. Studies of the nature of dioxane bind-
ing showed that the extent of “covalent” binding (as
measured by incorporation into lipid-free acid-insoluble tissue
residues) was significantly higher in the liver (the main carcio-
genic target tissue) than in other tissues. Investigations of the cellular distribution in liver indicated that
most of the radioactivity was in the cytosol, followed by the micro-
somal, mitochondrial and nuclear fractions. The binding of diox-
ane to macromolecules in vivo was mainly noncovalent.
The percent covalent binding was highest in the nuclear fraction,
followed by mitochondrial and microsomal fractions and the whole
homogenate. Pretreatment of rats with an inducer of mixed-function
mixed-function oxidase had no significant effect on the covalent
binding of dioxane to various tissues or cellular fractions of the liver.
There was no microsonie-catalyzed in vitro binding of ³H-diox-
ane to DNA under conditions which brought about eth- or
14C-benz[a]pyrene.

³H-Dioxane is a commonly used industrial and laboratory solvent. It was
reported to be toxic to industrial workers as early as 1941. Intensive expo-
sure to dioxane leads to severe liver and kidney damage and abnormalities
in the finding of both (4) that dioxane produces chromosomal aberra-

*Presented in part at the 1976 fall Meeting of Am. Soc. Pharmacol., &
Ther., Chicago, Ill.



