4486
FILE COPY

Impaired Hepatic Apolipoprotein B and E Translation
in Streptozotocin Diabetic Rats

James O. Schaeffer,’ David A. Zelen,* Charles E. Sparks,¹ Harold C. Smith,² and Edward A. Fisher³
'Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Rochester, School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New York
14642; ²Department of Physiology and Biochemistry, Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19129

1982 ANNUAL REPORT

Abstract

Studies of streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats have demon-
strated that hepatic apo B mRNA levels are reduced. To
determine if reductions are related to decreases in total liver
RNA or altered processing of apo E and albumin mRNA, we
compared apo B, apo E, and albumin cDNA probes. The expected
reduction in albumin mRNA was observed; however, the
decrease was later rat than those with apo B mRNA
levels unchanged. The proportion of translational transcripts
(BSTOP) was similar to control levels in diabetic rats.
In vitro translation studies using rabbit reticulin lysates
and immunoprecipitation demonstrated production of apo B
and apo E proteins in livers from control and diabetic rats
together with FR-1, FR-2, and 26K proteins. Control-phase diabetes
suggested that the reduction in hepatic apo B mRNA
secretion of apo A II augmented by primarly a result of
impaired translation and not intracellular degradation. Ribo-
some scanning defects caused the reduced incorporation
of labeled amino acids into apo E mRNA in diabetic rats. Apo
B mRNA processing was normal. The BSTOP is primarily con-
stituted of 3’ noncoding sequences, which are involved in
termination of transcription. Apo B mRNA transcripts were
reduced in livers from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.
The reduced levels of apo B mRNA may be related to the
decreased hepatic synthesis of VLDL and IDL.

Introduction

Apolipoprotein B (apo B) is a structural component of
very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) and intermediate density
lipoproteins (IDL) (1, 2). Apo B is synthesized as a single
polypeptide chain that is subsequently glycosylated and
modified to form VLDL and IDL. The apo B gene is large
(approximately 300 kb) and contains the coding sequences
for apo B-48 and apo B-100 (3). Apo B-48 is produced in
the intestine, whereas apo B-100 is synthesized primarily
in the liver (4). Apo E is a nonstructural component of VLDL,
IDL, and high density lipoproteins (HDL) (5). Apo E plays an
important role in lipid metabolism and clearance from plasma.
The hepatic synthesis of both apo B and apo E is reduced in
streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (6, 7). The reduction in
apo B synthesis may be related to decreased VLDL secretion
(8, 9). Apo E levels are also reduced in diabetic rats (10).
The mechanisms responsible for the reduced hepatic synthesis
of apo B and apo E in diabetes are not completely under-
stood. It has been suggested that the reduction in apo B pro-
duction may be due to decreased transcription of the gene
(11, 12) or impaired translation (13). Apo E levels are re-
duced in diabetic rats, but the mechanisms responsible for
this reduction are not known.

Materials and Methods

Animals

Male Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats (250-300 g) were used
in this study. Streptozotocin was administered intraperito-
neally at a dose of 65 mg/kg. Control animals received an
equal volume of saline. Blood glucose levels were measured
daily by the glucose oxidase method. Diabetic rats were con-
sidered to be diabetic when blood glucose levels exceeded
250 mg/dl for 3 consecutive days.

RNA Isolation and Blotting Procedures

Total liver RNA was isolated from control and diabetic rats
as previously described (14). RNA samples (20 ug) were
subjected to electrophoresis on a 1.2% agarose gel con-
taining formaldehyde. The RNA was transferred to nitrocel-
lulose membranes by capillary transfer. The membranes were
hybridized with cDNA probes for apo B, apo E, and albumin
as previously described (15).

In Vitro Translation

Total liver RNA was isolated from control and diabetic rats
as described above. In vitro translation was performed using
rabbit reticulin lysates (16). Samples of total liver RNA (10
ug) were incubated with 20 ul of rabbit reticulin lysate con-
taining [35S]methionine (1,000 Ci/mmol; Amersham Corp.,
Arlington Heights, IL). After a 45-min incubation at 37°C,
the reaction mixtures were treated with RNase A (2 ug/ml)
for 30 min. The translation products were immunoprecipi-
tated with rabbit antibodies against apo B and apo E as
previously described (17). Immunoprecipitated proteins
were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography.

Results

Hepatic Apo B mRNA Levels are Reduced in Diabetic Rats

Total liver RNA was isolated from control and diabetic rats
and subjected to electrophoresis on a 1.2% agarose gel con-
taining formaldehyde. The RNA was transferred to nitrocel-
lulose membranes and hybridized with cDNA probes for apo
B, apo E, and albumin (Fig. 1A). Apo B mRNA levels were
reduced in livers from diabetic rats compared to control rats.
The reduction in apo B mRNA levels occurred later than the
reduction in albumin mRNA levels.

BSTOP Analysis

The proportion of translational transcripts (BSTOP) was sim-
ilar in control and diabetic rats (Fig. 1B). The BSTOP is
primarily constituted of 3’ noncoding sequences, which are
involved in termination of transcription.

In Vitro Translation Studies

In vitro translation studies using rabbit reticulin lysates dem-
onstrated production of apo B and apo E proteins in livers
from control and diabetic rats (Fig. 2). Apo B mRNA transla-
tion was reduced in livers from streptozotocin-induced dia-
betic rats. The reduction in apo B mRNA translation may be
related to the decreased hepatic synthesis of VLDL and IDL.

Discussion

The results of this study demonstrate that hepatic apo B mRNA
levels are reduced in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.
The reduction in apo B mRNA levels occurred later than the
reduction in albumin mRNA levels. The proportion of transla-
tional transcripts (BSTOP) was similar in control and dia-
betic rats. In vitro translation studies using rabbit reticulin
lysates demonstrated production of apo B and apo E pro-
teins in livers from control and diabetic rats. Apo B mRNA
translation was reduced in livers from streptozotocin-induced
diabetic rats. The reduction in apo B mRNA translation may
be related to the decreased hepatic synthesis of VLDL and
IDL.

The reduction in hepatic apo B mRNA levels in diabetic rats
may be due to a decrease in transcription of the gene or im-
paired processing of the mRNA. The results of this study sug-
gest that the reduction in apo B mRNA levels is related to
impaired translation rather than decreased transcription. This
conclusion is based on the observation that the proportion of
translational transcripts (BSTOP) was similar in control and
diabetic rats.

The reduced incorporation of labeled amino acids into apo E
mRNA in diabetic rats suggests that ribosome scanning de-
fects may be responsible for the impaired translation of apo
E mRNA. Ribosome scanning is an important step in the ini-
tiation of protein synthesis. It involves the binding of the ri-
bosome to the mRNA and the subsequent scanning of the
mRNA until a start codon is encountered. Defects in ribo-
some scanning can lead to reduced translation of specific
mRNAs.

The impaired hepatic apo B and E translation may be re-
lated to the decreased VLDL secretion observed in diabetic
rats. VLDL are synthesized primarily in the liver and trans-
ported to the periphery via the circulation. The reduction in
VLDL secretion in diabetic rats may be due to a decrease in
the synthesis of apo B and apo E, which are essential com-
ponents of VLDL.

The results of this study provide new insights into the mech-
anisms responsible for the reduced hepatic synthesis of apo
B and apo E in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The re-
duction in apo B mRNA translation may be related to ribo-
some scanning defects or impaired processing of the mRNA.

References

1.  Frederickson, R. G., et al. 1972. Circulation 45:803.
2.  Havel, R. J., et al. 1972. J. Lipid Res. 13:617.
3.  Brown, A. L., et al. 1982. Cell 29:745.
4.  Kraemer, W. B., et al. 1978. J