FILE COPY

3952

ENHANCED RESPONSIVENESS OF ENDOTHELIUM
IN THE GROWING/MOTILE STATE TO
TUMOR NECROSIS FACTOR/CACHECTIN

BY HERWIG GERLACH; HOWARD LIEBERMAN; RONALD BACH; 1
GABRIEL GOODMAN; JEROLD BRETT; and DAVID STERN*

From the *Departments of Physiology, Pathology, and the Center for Radiologic Research,
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, and
the Department of Medicine, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 10029

Generalized vascular collapse can be induced by the infusion of high concentra-
tions of tumor necrosis factor/cachectin (TNF) (1). At lower concentrations, lesions
may be localized to particular parts of the vessel wall. Exposure of tumor-bearing
mice to these lower concentrations of TNF, for example, results in intravascular clot
formation confined only to the tumor vascular bed (2). This observation raises ques-
tions about mechanisms that direct the action of TNF within the vasculature.
Endothelium is a target of cytokines, such as TNF, which are central mediators
of the host response. Endothelial cells maintain vascular fluidity and constitute
a barrier to the escape of solutes and cellular elements of the blood from the
intravascular compartment. Exposure to TNF, however, activates specific endothelial
cell responses that may contribute to the inflammatory response. These include promotion of leukocyte adhesion and coagulation,
and an increase in monolayer permeability (1, 3).
Although in vivo experiments would suggest that the endothelial response to TNF
is uniform, it is evident that a characteristic feature of the host response is its local-
ization to particular sites of vascular damage. The regeneration of endothelium/mo-
tility occurs in regeneration after damage to the endothelial monolayer and in an-
giogenesis, whether reparative, or in the microvascularization of a tumor. We have
found that exposure of quiescent and motile endothelial cells to TNF is selective
regard for TNF The studies reported here demonstrate that compared with quies-
cent cultures, endothelial cells in the growth border milieu state have enhanced re-
sponsiveness to increased affinity for TNF. In parallel, prostaglandin E2 stimulated two
additional bands on autoradiography from SDS-polyacrylamide gel; cell-bound 125I-TNF
was also augmented and could be released by PGE2 or phorbol myristate esters in pro-
portion to TNF side model ing within an aqueous medium which results in
destruction of endothelial cells. The findings suggest that TNF effects
This work was supported by USPHS grants CA-39631, HL-48431, and CA-45031
and by the New York Heart Association. 125I-TNF was generously provided by Dr.
Ralph Reeder of Lederle Laboratories. We thank Drs. Robert Axtell and Joseph
Merrick for their assistance in autoradiography. Received April 19, 1984; accepted
August 30, 1984