3217

The Journal of Biological Chemistry
Published monthly by the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

Vol. 262 No. 4 February 5, 1987—Pages 1300-1306

Identification of a Guanosine Triphosphate-binding Site on Guinea Pig Liver Transglutaminase

ROLE OF GTP AND CALCIUM IONS IN MODULATING ACTIVITY*

(Received for publication November 27, 1986)

FILE COPY

Komandoor E. Acyuthayan and Charles S. Greenberger‡
From the Departments of &Medicine and Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710

Guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP) was found to in- conformational change in the active site of the enzyme which
hibit guinea pig liver transglutaminase activity as also eliminated its catalytic activity (O’Donohue and Pell, 1973).
measured by its reaction with N-succinimido esters. GTP is GTP has been shown to inhibit glutaminyl cyclase activity
(GTP + Ca2+)-dependent in vitro. The GTP inhibition was and extracellular calcium induces transglutaminase activ-
reversible and noncompetitive. GTP acted as a ity (Uesato et al., 1983). Furthermore, retinoic acid
substrate for ATP hydrolysis, but did not inhibit cerule- was found to inhibit intracellular transglutaminase activity
lase or chymotrypsin. GTP also inhibited Factor XIII in cultured fibroblasts (Breckler et al., 1981), and the
activity. Guinea pig liver transglutaminase GMP-, presence of retinoic acid increased transglutaminase activ-
ADP-, UMP-, UDP-, and UT were ineffective sub- ity in human skin cells (Lichti et al., 1985) as well
zyme activity. Guinea pig liver transglutaminase GMP-, as in cultured human embryoleucocyte HL-60 cells
ADP-, UMP-, UDP-, and UT were ineffective sub- (Seiti et al., 1982), human erythroleukemia HL-60 cells
strates. Recent studies have implicated nucleotide triphosphates (Davies et al., 1985) and mouse epidermal cells (Lichti et al.,
in the regulation of several cellular functions, but 1985).
to our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a Recent studies have implicated nucleotide triphosphates
GTP-binding site on transglutaminase. The GTP-bind- in the regulation of several cellular functions, but to
ing assay was performed with 14C-labeled GTP. All our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a
triphosphate, later was inhibited by unlabeled GTP. The GTP-binding site on transglutaminase. The GTP-bind-
GTP or Ca2+ inhibition of transglutaminase activity ing assay was performed with 14C-labeled GTP. All
was reversible. Electrophoretic properties of the pro- triphosphates were later inhibited by unlabeled GTP. The
tein plus GTP revealed a slower mobility. Affinitive GTP or Ca2+ inhibition of transglutaminase activity
chromatography and threshold GTP binding at a was reversible. Electrophoretic properties of the pro-
pH of 7.4 suggested that GTP binds to a specific site tein plus GTP revealed a slower mobility. Affinity
on the enzyme. The results suggest that GTP may chromatography and threshold GTP binding at a pH
regulate transglutaminase activity in vivo. of 7.4 suggested that GTP binds to a specific site
on the enzyme. The results suggest that GTP may
Transglutaminases are a family of enzymes that regulate transglutaminase activity in vivo.
catalyze the cross-linking of proteins via the formation
of covalent bonds between amino groups and glutamyl MATERIALS AND METHODS
residues (Wolff, 1965). These enzymes play an impor-
tant role in various biological processes including blood Guinea pig liver transglutaminase was purified from
clotting, wound healing, keratinocyte differentiation, guinea pig liver homogenate as described previously
and sperm maturation (Ferm et al., 1983; Hough et al., (Greenberger et al., 1972). The enzyme was stored at -20°C
1984). Guinea pig liver transglutaminase is inhibited by in 50 mM Tris buffer, pH 7.4, containing 1 mM phenyl-
ATP and GTP (Pell and O’Donohue, 1973) and methylsulfonyl fluoride.
stimulates glutaminyl cyclase activity (O'Donohue and
Pell, 1973). ATP has been shown to induce a Materials. Guanosine triphosphate (GTP), guanosine
diphosphate (GDP), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), adeno-
sine diphosphate (ADP), uridine triphosphate (UTP), uri-
dine diphosphate (UDP), guanosine monophosphate (GMP),
and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride were purchased from
Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). [14C]GTP was pur-
chased from New England Nuclear and had a specific ac-
tivity of 39 Ci/mmol. N-succinimido esters of D-phe-
nylalanine and p-nitroaniline were obtained from Aldrich
Chemical Co., Inc. (Milwaukee, WI).

RESULTS

Effect of Nucleotides on Transglutaminase Activity

Guinea pig liver transglutaminase activity was inhibited
by GTP in a reversible manner (Fig. 1A). The IC50 for
GTP inhibition was approximately 10 μM. GDP, ATP,
ADP, UTP, UDP, GMP, and UT were ineffective inhibitors
of the enzyme (Fig. 1B).

Binding of [14C]GTP to Transglutaminase

The binding of [14C]GTP to guinea pig liver transglu-
taminase was saturable and reversible (Fig. 2A). The
equilibrium dissociation constant (Ki) for GTP binding
was 5 μM. Scatchard analysis revealed a single class of
binding sites (Fig. 2B).

Effect of GTP on Electrophoretic Mobility

The addition of GTP to guinea pig liver transglutaminase
resulted in a slower electrophoretic mobility of the pro-
tein (Fig. 3). This suggests that GTP binds to a specific
site on the enzyme and induces a conformational change.

Affinity Chromatography

Guinea pig liver transglutaminase was applied to a col-
umn containing [14C]GTP coupled to Sepharose CL-6B.
The enzyme bound to the column and was eluted with 50
mM Tris buffer, pH 7.4, containing 10 mM GTP. The
eluted enzyme exhibited increased transglutaminase activ-
ity.

DISCUSSION

These results demonstrate that guinea pig liver transglu-
taminase possesses a specific binding site for GTP. The
binding of GTP to the enzyme is reversible and inhibits
its catalytic activity. The conformational change in-
duced by GTP binding may be responsible for the inhibi-
tion of enzyme activity.

REFERENCES

Breckler, R. B., M. A. DeRose, J. L. Sturgess, and D. G.
Sandford. 1981. Retinoic acid inhibits intracellular trans-
glutaminase activity in cultured fibroblasts. J. Cell.
Physiol. 109: 357-362.

Davies, P., A. Seiti, M. C. Laniado, and R. D. Levin. 1985.
Effect of retinoic acid on transglutaminase activity in
human embryoleucocyte HL-60 cells. Blut. 51: 237-241.

Ferm, W. A., J. M. Dougherty, and R. E. Banks. 1983.
Transglutaminases. Adv. Enzymol. Relat. Areas Comput.
Biol. 15: 269-307.

Greenberger, C. S., K. E. Acyuthayan, and J. M. Dougherty.
1972. Purification of guinea pig liver transglutaminase.
J. Biol. Chem. 247: 8257-8263.

Hough, R. G., D. C. Miller, and W. A. Ferm. 1984.
Transglutaminases in human skin. J. Invest. Dermatol.
83: 155-158.

Lichti, E., M. B. Katz, P. M. Cregan, and R. D. Levin. 1985.
Effect of retinoic acid on transglutaminase activity in
mouse epidermal cells. J. Invest. Dermatol. 84: 367-370.

O’Donohue, T., and G. Pell. 1973. Stimulation of glutaminyl
cyclase activity by adenosine triphosphate and guanosine
triphosphate. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 52: 