2 J. Soc. Psychol., Vol. 130, No. 3, 1980
Printed in Great Britain

Cir. Acknowledged
W. Jenkins

PSYCHOSOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CORRELATES
OF CORONARY-PRONE BEHAVIOR
IN FINLAND*

MARKKU KOSKENVUO, JAAKKO KAPRIO, HEIMO LANGINVUUDO,
MAATI RONNO and SEPPO SARNI

Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Helsinki,
Haartmaninkatu 2, 00280 Helsinki 28, Finland

[Received in revised form 10 November 1980]

Abstract—Coronary-prone behavior was studied in a Finnish population sample consisting
of 1134 adults (5419 males and 595 females). A questionnaire-based short test (A-B) was
developed for this purpose. The distribution of the study population on the A-B axis was
unimodal with no distinctive grouping into A- and B-types. Appendices were constructed
to allow identification of Type A and Type B personality characteristics.

Type A men were often less married, self-employed or in white collar work, and had larger
incomes and more years of residence. A-type persons were more anxious and their life
satisfaction was lower than that of B-types. A-type men spent more time at work and
expressed their daily activities more tiring. but their work was less monotonous. A-type persons
spent more time on leisure-time physical activity, but smoked more cigarettes. B-type persons spent more
time on intellectual activities.

In this cross-sectional study the A-type men reported often a history of myocardial
infarction (MI) in first-degree relatives (13.9%, p < 0.05) and angina pectoris pain in close
relatives (8.7%, p < 0.05) compared to the B-type men, as well as a higher prevalence of
incidence of coronary heart disease events and mortality. The study cohort is being followed-up
for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

INTRODUCTION

Evidence from a variety of studies has indicated that the coronary-prone overt behavior
pattern Type A is associated with the prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) (Hicks, 1976).
The typology developed by Rosenman and Freeman (1) has since undergone significant
refinement. This early work suggested that the Type A behavior pattern, characterized
achievement, competitiveness, time urgency or impatience, and hostility, was a predictor
of premature death from CHD in some proportion of the population. Subsequent and
more detailed studies have shown that only all aspects of the Type A behavior pattern do
not necessarily predict CHD risk. For instance, Hart has been criticized for his initial
definition of Type A (Hart, 1978).

There is now considerable evidence to suggest that a drive or ambition sub-trait within
the Type A construct may be more important than other aspects such as competitiveness
(e.g., Chesney & Langer, 1980; Mellby et al., 1980). The present study was undertaken to
examine the psychosocial and environmental correlates of coronary-prone behavior in a
general population sample in Finland.

METHODS

Sample

The study population consisted of 1134 adults (5419 males and 595 females) aged 25–64
years, randomly selected from the central part of Finland. The response rate was 83%.
Information on coronary heart disease events and mortality has been obtained through
the Finnish National Mortality Register and hospital records.

Questionnaire

A questionnaire-based short test (A-B) was developed for this purpose. It consisted of 29
statements describing various aspects of behavior, personality, and lifestyle. The statements
were derived from the published literature on Type A and Type B behavior patterns (e.g.,
Rosenman & Freeman, 1959; Jenkins, 1967). Examples of statements include: ‘I often
feel rushed’, ‘I like to do several things at once’, ‘I am easily annoyed’, ‘I enjoy quiet
activities’, and ‘I feel satisfied with my life’. Respondents were asked to indicate the extent
to which each statement applied to them using a 5-point scale ranging from 1 (not at all)
to 5 (very much so).

*This work was supported by grants from the Finnish Medical Foundation, the Academy of Finland, and
the Emil Aaltonen Foundation.
Requests for reprints should be sent to Dr. Markku Koskenvuo, Department of Public Health Sciences,
University of Helsinki, Haartmaninkatu 2, 00280 Helsinki 28, Finland.



