SCIENCE/TECHNOLOGY CONCENTRATES

Science

Retrovirus carries human gene into mice

Retroviruses containing the gene for human en-
zyme hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase
(HPRT) have been used to infect mammalian
cells in culture, and the infected cells have been
transplanted into mice (Science, 225, 694(1984)). Mo-
lecular biologists A. Dusty Miller, Inke N. Verena,
and colleagues at the Salk Institute for Biological
Studies, University of California, San Diego, find production
of HPRT in the mice and that the retrovirus
mouse, indicating that the gene was transmitted
through the virus. The researchers were able to de-
termine the number of cells infected by the virus, but think the
transfer may be more efficient. They suggest
they conclude that this could lead to possibility
of using retroviruses for somatic cell therapy of pa-
tient with HPRT deficiency, a genetic disease
caused by absence of HPRT.

Pain sensitivity agent identified

A second category of natural chemical agents that
produce extreme sensitivity to pain in man has
been isolated (Science, 225, 168(1984)) by Wil-
liam J. Krier and Edward I. Gorzolzi of the Depart-
ment of Chemistry, University of California, San
Francisco (Science, 225, 168(1984)). The research-
ers find that this agent is similar to another well
known pain-producing substance, bradykinin. One
of the agents is a peptide containing 10 amino acids
and the other is a prostaglandin. The researchers
believe that these substances may be involved in
inflammatory processes and that they could be used
as tools for studying pain mechanisms. They also
suggest that these agents might be useful as an-
algesics if administered in small doses.

Scientists find evidence of early life on Earth

Geologists have found evidence suggesting that
life existed on Earth 3.9 billion years ago, much ear-
lier than previously thought (Science, 225, 168(1984)).
The evidence comes from samples of rocks collected
in Canada and Greenland. The rocks contain isotop-
ic ratios that suggest the presence of organic mat-
ter. Scientists have long believed that Earth formed
about 4.5 billion years ago, but it took time for the
planet to cool and for oceans to form. The appear-
ance of life so early in Earth’s history suggests that
life may have arisen relatively quickly after the
formation of the planet.

PCT exposure linked to health effects

Polychlorinated triphenyls (PCEs) are a group of
chemicals widely used as coolants and lubricants.
They are known to cause toxic health effects and it
is known to accumulate in fatty tissue, little is known
about its long-term health effects.

Education

Coalition for science education formed

A continuing coalition, tentatively called the Trian-
gle Coalition for Science & Technology Education,
has formed as a result of a similarly named
conference that ended early this month in Washing-
ton, D.C. The conference brought together teachers
and representatives of business, scientific societies,
science education organizations, and other to
search for ways to improve science education and
to help science teachers. Participants called for immedi-
ate establishment of a small staff at the National
Science Teachers Association in Washington, D.C.
to begin work with coalition members on high
priority activities such as developing curriculum
describing resources, programs, and a database
available to all science teachers.

Technology

Additives reduce catalyst deactivation

Scientist at Purdue University working in fluid
hydrocarbon catalytic cracking have found that
certain additives can significantly reduce the de-
activation of catalysts (Science, 225, 168(1984)).
The researchers find that the additives are able to
prevent the deposition of coke on the catalyst sur-
face. Coke is a carbonaceous material that forms
during catalytic cracking and can deactivate cata-
lysts. The additives are believed to work by alter-
ing the surface chemistry of the catalyst, making it
less prone to coke formation.

New method for measuring blood flow

Researchers at the University of Rochester have de-
veloped a new method for measuring blood flow in
small vessels (Science, 225, 168(1984)). The meth-
od involves using a laser to illuminate the vessel
and then detecting the light that is scattered by the
blood. The amount of light that is scattered is di-
rectly proportional to the blood flow rate. The re-
searchers believe that this method could be used to
diagnose and monitor cardiovascular disease.



