Pediatric News

August 1983

dren in Day Care
tract Infectious
ase at Earlier Age

VANCOUVER, B.C. — Regular attendance at a day
care centre appears to increase the risk of infectious
ailments in children, according to Dr. David W.
McLean, University of British Columbia. Dr. McLean
reports that his team’s study of 106 infants and toddlers
found that children who had attended day care more than
once a week had a higher incidence of respiratory dis-
eases, ear infections, skin rashes and diarrhea.

Cumulative Microtrauma
Sports Injuries Increasing

Risk of Growth Defectly Athletic Overuse Abuse

WASHINGTON — The number of reports of the tiny broken bone has exploded in recent years, according to Dr.
William L. Meyers, orthopaedic surgeon at Children’s Hospital National Medical Center. “We are seeing a tremendous increase in microfractures,” he says. “It's a reflection of the increased participation of children in sports and the intensity with which they are playing.”

WASHINGTON — Reports of child abuse have risen sharply in recent years, according to Dr.
David W. Brock, director of the Child Abuse Reporting Center at George-
town University Medical Center. Dr. Brock says that while there has been a general increase in reporting of all types of child maltreatment, the number of cases involving athletic injuries is particularly alarming.

Small Group Well-Baby Visits
Can Benefit Mother, Pediatrician

A new approach to well-baby care, involving small group visits, can benefit both mother and pediatrician, according to Dr. Jane S. Shaw, University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry. Dr. Shaw and her colleagues report that the small group format allows mothers to share experiences and concerns with one another while providing the pediatrician with an opportunity to address common questions and issues in a more efficient manner.

The study involved 60 first-time mothers who attended well-baby clinics at the University of Rochester Medical Center. Mothers were divided into two groups: those who participated in small group visits (six to eight mothers) and those who received traditional individual care. The small group visits lasted approximately one hour and included a brief discussion led by the pediatrician, followed by time for mothers to interact with one another.

Role of Apetite in Identifying Infants at Risk for SIDS Not Clear

WASHINGTON — The role of appetite in identifying infants at risk for sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is not clear, according to Dr.
James P. Ryan, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. Dr. Ryan’s comments follow the publication of a study by Dr.
Robert J. Shapiro and colleagues from the University of California, San Francisco, which found that mothers of infants who subsequently died of SIDS were more likely to report that their babies had difficulty feeding or poor appetite in the weeks before their deaths.

(Continued on page 16)



On Page 8:
Group Tries to
Help Premature
Babies Develop