Special Report

The brain’s own opiates

The discovery during the past few years of naturally occurring opiatele peptides, known as enkephalins and endorphins, in brain is opening the way both to better understanding of how drugs for easing pain or treating depression

Solomon H. Snyder
Johns Hopkins

In the past four years, major advances have been made in our understanding of how pain and pleasure are processed in the brain. The related role of narcotics and how opioid drugs exert their effects has also become clearer. This research has led to the discovery of remarkable of new terminal-like substances in the brain. These peptides, known as enkephalins and endor-phins, appear to be neurotransmitters, or chemical messengers, that are involved in pain pathways. They transmit information relating to pain, emotional behavior, and other bodily processes.

Endorphin is a term used to describe any normally occurring opiate-like peptide. The predominant endorphin in the brain are two peptides: the β-endorphin and the α-endorphin. The β1-amino acid peptide β-endorphin also occurs in the brain.

The chemical identification of the endorphins has major relevance both for practical medicine and for fundamental understanding of brain function. Since endorphins such as those think have cause euphoria and relieve pain, clarification of how these peptides work may lead to new approaches to treating pain. It is likely that the brain releases endorphins and that these compounds are highly localized in “emotional” and “pain” areas of the brain.

Deprivation of these opiate-like peptides may most valuable contribution to our understanding of the role of endorphins in pain, euphoria, and drug addiction. Some physicians believe that the danger of addiction is related to the fact that drugs can stimulate the release of endorphins and produce a sense of euphoria. It is likely that continued research will reveal more about the relationship between endorphins, pain, pleasure, and drug addiction.

REFERENCES

1.  Ford, C. P., et al. Lancet 2: 1073-1075 (1976).
2.  Grossman, S., et al. Science 198: 418-421 (1977).
3.  Hersch, L. F., et al. New England Journal of Medicine 298: 759-761 (1978).
4.  Snyder, S. H., et al. Science 201: 425-427 (1978).

(Continued on page 36)



COPYRIGHT © 1978 Newsweek, Inc.