Jr., M.D.
George W. Beattie, M.D.
Robert A. Kelly, M.D.
William F. Bynum, M.D.
James E. Corley, M.D.
John P. DeGroot, M.D.
Richard L. Dolinsky, M.D.
David S. Edwards, M.D.
Robert A. Fine, M.D.
William F. Hamilton, III, M.D.
James H. Jackson, M.D.
John W. Kirk, M.D.
Eugene P. Litten, Jr., M.D.
Richard J. Mason, M.D.
Robert A. Moore, M.D.
William F. Neely, M.D.
Charles B. Ross, Jr., M.D.
James E. Savage, M.D.
John C. Scheidt, M.D.
William H. Scott, M.D.
Richard L. Sweeney, M.D.

Publisher: Dennis J. Brown
Associate Publisher: Robert W. Mcintosh
Managing Editor: William F. Hamilton, III
Senior Editors: James E. Corley, John P. DeGroot
Robert A. Fine, Richard L. Dolinsky
Assistant Editors: Mary Ann Barrows, Susan M. Karr
Editorial Assistant: Barbara J. Starnes

companies to publish and acknowledge support of scientific
research. He said the AMA is committed to encouraging
the dissemination of medical knowledge through all forms
of these presentations.

Dr. Kelly, chairman of the department of Lipid Research
at Washington University School of Medicine, said that
companies to be responsible in their efforts of medical educa-
tion and research.

He cited the AMA’s leadership in fostering mandatory continuing
medical education for physicians as an example of its com-
(Continued on page 27)
Dr. Wilbur (left) and Dr. Kelly.

Heart Diseases Linked Statistically to Other Ills

MIAMI BEACH—Associated Medical News Service
reported that a new study has shown the
statistical association between heart dis-
eases, strokes, diabetes, and certain
types of heart diseases were seen in an
health interview survey by Dr. Hal K.
Judd, of the University of Illinois.

Stress Test Said to
Facilitate Myocardial
Ischemia Diagnosis

LOS ANGELES—A stress test is a valuable
tool in the diagnosis of myocardial isch-
emia, according to Dr. Robert A. Fine,
cardiologist at Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center.

Dr. Fine said that the stress test can help
to identify patients who are at risk for
heart attacks and strokes. He added that
the test is also useful in evaluating
patients with chest pain or shortness of
breath.

The American Public Health Association
said that dependable associations be-
tween heart disease, stroke, dia-
betes, as well as angina pectoris, it
was reported from the results of a health
interview survey by the College of Medicine,
Chicago.

The association between diabetes
and heart disease and stroke was statis-
tically significant when compared with
the general population.

The National Health Interview Survey, conducted by the National
Center for Health Statistics, used a sample
of 150,000 households in the United States
to determine the prevalence of illnesses and disability.

The survey revealed that 43.110
people suffered from heart disease,
11,978 people had strokes, and 6,990
people had diabetes.

Top Doctors Desert Denver Tracks Public
Health Interview Survey Data

DENVER—The National Health Interview
Survey has been used by top doctors in
Denver to determine the prevalence of
illnesses and disability in the United
States.

Dr. Wilbur (left) and Dr. Kelly.

(Continued on page 28)

The survey, conducted by the National
Center for Health Statistics, used a sample
of 150,000 households in the United States
to determine the prevalence of illnesses
and disability.

The survey revealed that 43,110
people suffered from heart disease,
11,978 people had strokes, and 6,990
people had diabetes.

Dr. Kelly said that the survey data
can be used to identify areas where
public health programs are needed. He
added that the survey can also be used
to track the progress of public health
programs over time.



