Medical News

Cancer patients account
for many blood transfusions

Efforts are being intent to make sure that every
cancer patient who needs blood can get it.
“The need for blood is growing, and so is the
number of cancer patients,” Dr. Lee Clark, MD, an American
Cancer Society representative, said at a recent
blood transfusions seminar. “In one year, the number
of transfusions are given to cancer patients in one
hospital has doubled in just eight years.”

Dr. Clark, who is the current ACS president, says the
society is working with blood banks and existing
blood donor and collecting organizations. But to extend
the supply of blood, they need more donors. “We do
not own bloodmobiles. We don’t do blood typing or
processing. We simply help hospitals and
hospitals and blood banks.”

Many of the ACS’s 2 million volunteers donate blood
regularly, but the organization has contacts
with a number of organizations whose members also
donate blood.

Officials of a number of other agencies involved in the
blood supply effort spoke at the seminar.
“We call our work the ‘second possibility of competition,’”
Dr. Clark says. “It’s about getting people to
volunteer to donate blood, and it’s about making sure
that if you do try to donate blood as a volunteer, you
are able to do so.”

Clark says there are several reasons why cancer
patients need more blood than other patients.
“Cancer patients often require more intensive
treatment,” he explains. “Chemotherapy and radiation
therapy can lower the number of red blood cells in
the body, as can some surgical procedures. In
addition, cancer patients are more likely to have
complications that require blood transfusions.”

Dr. Clark says that the ACS is working with hospitals
and blood banks to make sure that cancer patients
have access to the blood they need. “We’re also
working to educate the public about the importance
of blood donation,” he adds.

Elsewhere...

A new study suggests that people who have had measles
may be at increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis,
even years after recovery. The findings are based on a
study of 5.7 million people in Denmark. Researchers
found that those who had measles were 20 percent more
likely to develop MS than those who hadn’t.

“This is an observational study, so we can’t prove
cause and effect,” says Dr. Anders Sørensen, MD, PhD,
of the University of Copenhagen, who led the research.
“But it does suggest that there may be a link between
measles exposure to MS.”

The researchers believe that measles infection may
trigger an autoimmune response in some people, which
can lead to MS. The study also found that people who
had been vaccinated against measles were not at increased
risk of developing MS.

“We don’t know exactly why measles might increase
the risk of MS,” says Dr. Sørensen. “But it could be due
to background exposure