continued from page 579

happen, he pointed out, presumably from the stress of sudden confinement.

“I would venture to support the theory that this some effect of the problem in Spain,” he said. “It’s a very real phenomenon. It doesn't not get excited, you can think, if these things are happening in a society where people as this, I don’t think we can normally afford to do this.”

Substance linked with
allergic contact eczema

A previously unrecognized pharmacological substance has been isolated from the skins of patients with allergic contact dermatitis. The finding supports the concept of an immunological origin for the disorder and may lead to a better means of managing it, researchers report.

Jorgen Sondberg, MD, dermatologist and researcher at Skåne University Hospital in Malmö, Sweden, and colleagues, published their findings in the *Archives of Dermatol-
ogy*. The research was supported by the Swedish Medical Research Council and the Dermatology Foundation.

The substance, which Dr. Sondberg and his colleagues have tentatively named “Sondberg factor,” is a low-molecular-weight polypeptide that appears to be unique to patients with allergic contact dermatitis. It was isolated from the stratum corneum of skin lesions in 25 patients with various forms of allergic contact dermatitis. Control subjects were clinically unaffected at the time, study and patch tests were applied to the forearm surface of these patients. A biopsy was carried out on the inflamed skin 48 hours later.

Eighteen control subjects were studied, all without clinical signs of allergic contact dermatitis or any systemic disease, including such as urticaria, eczema, benign familial pemphigus type II or rare degeneration. 0.1 nmol to 0.2 nmol hydrotyramine was found in any of the samples from the control group. The substance was remotely located detected by the average, intensity and distribution of the Sondberg factor in short-lived whealing inflammatory reactions. It is a characteristic of sustained inflammat reaction, Dr. Sondberg said.

Team announces
assay test for enzyme

An assay technique developed by biochemists at Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, may be a way to measure the amount of ceruloplasmin, an enzyme involved in Wilson’s disease in newborns and patients with other disorders.

Fabio’s disease is known as copper accumulation-related disorder. The serum assay is applicable to the determination of ceruloplasmin activity in human blood, according to Dr. James E. Bradway, biochemistry department, Michigan State University.

The study was published in *Clinical Chemistry*.

The technique involves a spectrophotometric method that measures the rate of oxidation of 3-(2-pyridyl)-5-sulfonic acid by ceruloplasmin. The assay is rapid and requires only small amounts of serum.

Researchers say the test can be used to screen newborns for Wilson’s disease, which is caused by a genetic defect in ceruloplasmin synthesis.



