BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL 8 FEBRUARY 1975

of strong coffee at breakfast (100-150 mg caffeine per cup),
two cups of instant coffee during the morning (60 mg
each), and then a severe drink (50 mg) may provide
sufficient stimulation to produce tremulousness, irritability,
insomnia, palpitations, anxiety, indigestion, and
irregular pulse; diarrhoea of sleep, diuresis, and gastro-
intestinal disturbance. Greden’s three patients were a nurse
who drank up to 12 cups daily, a clerk who took 10-15
cups of coffee each day, an unemployed housewife
who consumed 18 cups daily, and a young man whose
sequoat who suffered severe recurrent headaches at the week-
end if he did not have his usual amount. The diagnosis of
caffeine toxicity had been made;
used until the patient was convinced that he had to
recognise his own part of course, what led these patients to
drink so much coffee? Some people drink coffee in excess to
counteract fatigue or boredom, but this is not always
the message seems plain. Inquiries into symptoms include
questions not only about prescribed drugs and self-medication
but also about the patient’s social circumstances.
The idea that drinking coffee is an intergenerational
habit for whatever it may add to the spirit of
information; the need to draw attention away from the
anxiety.” 232: 290

A W DOWNS, M.D.

Leeds General Infirmary

References

1.  Caffeine and adenosine. Lancet, 1974, 3 (7928), 1151-53.
2.  Caffeine addiction: a case report. Brit. Med. J., 1973, 307, 635-36.
3.  The effects of caffeine on the central nervous system.
    Pharmacol. Rev., 1974, 26, 185-218.

THE COST OF HOSPITAL BUILDING

SIR,-The article by Mr. J. W. Biles on hospital building
(BMJ, Jan 25, p 130) is a sobering reminder of the
difficulties that arise when short-term political considerations
override long-term planning. The cost of hospital
building must stop. So Leeds is left with a decaying,
obsolescent hospital site in an area surrounded by acres of devastation with the new coal energy
plant looming over it like a giant spectre. It has been
been. Medical staff who have put up with inconvenience for
years are now faced with the prospect of working through the
darkest hours of cramped quarters sentioned through the
lullaby (an act so prospect of way relief. The gymae-
sists, in particular, feel that their conditions are worse than
were those then at the start of the 1960s.

The Leeds Medical School is also seriously
threatened by the decision to halt the project. Four years ago
the intake was reduced from 80 to 60 and there are
plans to increase the number’s 100 and family
to 216-but these estimates were based on the new university
hospital being available. The medical schools in
Northern England-already short of doctors-and there is
no prospect of any additional teaching posts or practice
in the region in which they have been trained.

It is a sad reflection that the halt to this show
come at the most critical stage in the rebuilding program.
The new hospital is not just for Leeds; it serves
the whole area where house in phase 1 of the new hospital
will soon be ready, but there is no prospect of a block
for medical students or laboratory accommodation. The
situation is further complicated by the fact that the central
difficulties. The future (I do not mean just a few essential
modifications) lies in the hands of health authorities and
regional hospital boards who are not always able to see
the long-term implications of their decisions.

The cost of hospital building has risen astronomically,
but this is not necessarily due to inflation alone. There is
a great deal of duplication of effort and a lack of
standardisation in design. The time has come for the
Department of Health to take a more active role in
planning and controlling hospital construction.

I am W DOWNS, M.D.
Leeds General Infirmary

References

1.  Biles, J. W. BMJ, 1975, 308, 130-32.

CORRECTIONS

BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL

VOLUME 308 FEBRUARY 8 1975

Page 161: In the article “The management of
chronic pain” (Jan 18, p 154), the reference to
“the National Institute for Medical Research” should
read “the Imperial College of Science and Technology”.

Page 230: In the letter from Dr. A. J. P.
Goddard concerning the use of a new method of
assessing respiratory function (Jan 18, p 174), the
reference to “the Department of Respiratory
Medicine at St Bartholomew’s Hospital” should
read “the Department of Respiratory Medicine at
the London Hospital”.