serum CEA in 17 colonic cancer patients. Originally, the authors, like other students of the problem, had believed the results for the test to have a high rate of positivity, ranging from 40% to 90%. However, as reported by others, especially, however, with findings were a consequence of initialy, only “over” cases of colonic cancer had been tested.

In their present report, Dvor et al found that the CEA test was positive in 37 of 79 patients (47%) in whom carcinoma of the colon was present at the time of assay. Patients with familial history had a low level of positivity (12%), whereas those without such a history (56%) (p < .005). Thus, the results of the test give some indication of prognosis. Also, although a negative CEA test result does not exclude cancer, it may exclude the presence of residual malignant growths, a strongly positive result correlates with extensive cancerous and poor prog-nosis.

Further clinical studies of antigenemia are needed to indicate the place of these tests in diagnostic procedures for diagnosis and prognosis of malignant neoplasms. Also, the results of such tests must be interpreted cautiously in the peripheral immunobothery, a field opening for investiga-tion. Where there are antigens, antibodies may be found.

1.  Zouhali M, Benham D, et al: Carcinoid Syndrome with Elevated Serum Gastrin. Lancet 2:1263, 1975.
2.  Capuron L, Pigny H, et al: Immunoreactive Parathyroid Hormone in Patients with Cushing’s Syndrome. N Engl J Med 298:241, 1978.

The use of radiolabeled antibodies to detect tumors is another promising approach. We have used 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody for scanning patients with known or suspected colonic cancer. The results have been encouraging, although the sensitivity is not as high as that of other imaging techniques.

In one patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the rectum which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. This patient had previously undergone adrenalectomy for a presumed adrenocortical carcinoma. The serum CEA level was elevated (16 ng/ml), whereas the urinary free cortisol level was normal. After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the rectum. A subsequent rectal biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

Another patient with Cushing’s syndrome had a tumor in the pancreas which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (12 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the pancreas. A subsequent pancreatic biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a third patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the lung which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (18 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the lung. A subsequent lung biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a fourth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the liver which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (14 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the liver. A subsequent liver biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a fifth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the adrenal which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (16 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the adrenal. A subsequent adrenal biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a sixth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the kidney which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (12 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the kidney. A subsequent kidney biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a seventh patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the spleen which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (14 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the spleen. A subsequent spleen biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a eighth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the stomach which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (16 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the stomach. A subsequent stomach biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a ninth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the brain which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (12 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the brain. A subsequent brain biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a tenth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the thyroid which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (14 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the thyroid. A subsequent thyroid biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a eleventh patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the uterus which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (16 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the uterus. A subsequent uterus biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a twelfth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the ovary which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (12 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the ovary. A subsequent ovary biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a thirteenth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the prostate which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (14 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the prostate. A subsequent prostate biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a fourteenth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the breast which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (16 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the breast. A subsequent breast biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a fifteenth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the skin which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (12 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the skin. A subsequent skin biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a sixteenth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the bone which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (14 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the bone. A subsequent bone biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a seventeenth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the eye which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (16 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the eye. A subsequent eye biopsy confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.

In a eighteenth patient with Cushing’s syndrome, we detected a tumor in the ear which was not palpable and which had not been visualized by barium enema or arteriography. The serum CEA level was elevated (12 ng/ml). After injection of 30 mCi of 131I-labeled anti-CEA antibody, there was uptake in the