Chronic Disease in Former College Students

XIII. Early Precursors of Peptic Ulcer*

RALPH S. Paffenbarger, JR., ALVIN L. WING and ROBERT T. HYDE

Paffenbarger, R. S., Jr., California State Dept. of Health; 2161 Berkeley
Way, Berkeley, Calif. 94704. A. L. Wing and R. T. Hyde: Chronic disease in
former college students. XIII. Early precursors of peptic ulcer. Am J Epi-
demiol questionaire, 487 reported that documented histories revealed
a history of peptic ulcer. The data increased incidence of peptic ulcer
later in life; coffee and soft drink consumption; tobacco smoking habits;
lower levels of physical activity; less participation in heavy activities
and variety sports; and history of indigestion or diarrhea. Paired combina-
tions of these characteristics in youth additionally augmented the risk of sub-
sequent peptic ulcer. Soft drinks, but not coffee, were associated with a
college influenced incidence of peptic ulcer, but milk consumption was in-
versely related. None of 10 personality traits distinguished students who later de-
veloped peptic ulcers. Habitual coffee consumption in college emerged as the
best predictor of subsequent peptic ulcer, while milk consumption identified
those most likely to remain ulcer-free.

alcohol; carbonated beverages; coffee; colitis; ulcerative; gastrointestinal
symptoms: milk; peptic ulcer; smoking

The general image of a highly subjected for
peptic ulcer is an inveterate coffee drinker
who smokes cigarettes and has a history of
indigestion or diarrhea (1). The data from
a recent study of former college students
support this view, but also suggest that the
risk of ulcer in later life is influenced by a
number of other factors.

The study population consisted of 20,364
male former college students who completed
a mailed questionnaire in 1974. The ques-
tionnaire elicited information on medical his-
tories, lifestyle habits, and personality traits
during the years 1920 to 1938. Histories of
peptic ulcer were recorded as well as data
on coffee consumption, soft drink consump-
tion, tobacco smoking, physical activity,
gastrointestinal symptoms, and personality
traits.

The results indicated that men who later de-
veloped peptic ulcers had, in youth, been
more likely to consume coffee and soft drinks,
to smoke cigarettes, to engage in lower levels
of physical activity, and to have a history of
indigestion or diarrhea. Certain combinations
of these characteristics were particularly asso-
ciated with an increased risk of peptic ulcer.

Review of health and other rec-
ords of the same group of 35-year-old
men identified that characterized latent
histories, which upon later diagnosis
were peptic ulcers. These data sup-
ported the view that peptic ulcer is a
disease influenced by factors present
early in life. The most powerful pre-
dictor was coffee consumption at col-
lege—milk consumption conversely
served as a protective factor.

* Supported by grants from the Na-
tional Institutes of Health (DE 0149-13)
and the U.S. Public Health Service (HL-
18726). Received for publication June 25,
1975.

Reprints requests to R. S. Paffenbarger,
Jr., California State Dept. of Health, 2161
Berkeley Way, Berkeley, Calif. 94704.