577

Metabolic Changes Associated With the Cessation of Cigarette Smoking

Stanley C. Clutter, M.D.; Philip R. Means, M.Clmer M. Heidenberg, MD;
Ben J. Rufus, MD; and Donald J. Tallarida, Ph.D., Philadelphia

The person who stops smoking frequently gains weight. In some subjects we observed that the weight gain, the subject were observed before and after cessation of smoking. A statistically significant increase was found in the body weight and a decrease in the pro-
duction of urine (P < 0.05) and serum glucose levels. The serum cholesterol, urea,
glucose, Creat, and the urine calcium first. Three metabolic changes following cessation of
smoking may be one of the reasons for this weight gain.

THE adverse effects of cigarette smoking on health are well established. Much effort has gone into counseling cigarette smokers that they should stop smoking, since the cessation of smoking has been shown to reverse some of the adverse effects of smoking. The person who stops smoking frequently gains weight.
The amount of weight gain is often attributed to increased food intake due to period of tobacco deprivation. Our study in this report aims to determine the metabolic changes associated with the cessation of smoking.

If the cessation of smoking was associated with a significant increase in body weight, it could be that the person who stops smoking has an altered metabolism.

Seven male cigarette smoking scientists well acquainted to participate in this study. Each had previously participated in preliminary studies and were familiar with the testing procedure. The entire battery of tests was car-
ried out on each subject at two times: before the voluntary cessation of smoking after be had not smoked for one week.

The subjects reported to the laboratory for 12 hours prior to the start of the study. They came to the laboratory and assumed a supine posi-
tion in a room where temperature was maintained for the entire experimental period.
After this, they breathed through a fresh Douglas bag into a spirometer. The volume of quiet breathing of room air through the apparatus was measured during the first 10 minutes. One hour
was allowed for this modification before gas was collected in a Douglas bag. The respiratory rate and tidal volume were recorded.

Table 1—Starting and Stopped Subjects by Group

Subjects Years Smoked Packs per Day Corpul Weight (Pounds)

1.  12 1.5 160
2.  10 2.0 183
3.  8 1.8 174
4.  15 2.5 200
5.  9 1.2 155
6.  7 2.2 195
7.  11 1.9 183



