Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
Vol. 91, No. 4093-4097, April 1994
Biochemistry

Avian erythroblastosis virus E26: Only one (myb) of two cell-derived coding regions is necessary for oncogenicity
(leukemia/cooperating oncogenes)

YUE WU and PETER DUESBERG*
Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Stanley Hall, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720
Contributed by Peter Duesberg, December 29, 1993

ABSTRACT. The oncogene hypothesis postulates that mu-
tated cellular genes, termed proto-oncogenes, function as cancer
genes because they are related to retroviral onc genes. How-
ever, most known retroviral onc genes and their cellular proto-
genes from cancers are not sufficient for oncogenicity. There-
fore, it has been proposed that mutated proto-oncogenes depend
on other oncogenic factors for transformation. The sequence
of viral avian leukosis virus E26 includes coding regions derived
from two cellular genes: myb and a novel gene. It has
hybrid gene has been proposed to be a model for two-
step oncogenesis. Here we show that only the myb region is
necessary. myb and Δmyb deletion mutants of cloned E26
proviral DNA were constructed, and these recombinant viruses, pro-
duced by transfected primary chicken embryo cells, were tested
for leukemogenicity in newborn chicks. The Δmyb deletion mutant was just as leukemogenic as the wild-type
virus and a myb deletion mutant lacked leukemogenicity.
The results show that the Δmyb deletion mutant failed to
transform chick embryo fibroblasts because it lacked a
region necessary for transformation. By reverse transcrip-
tion polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method, E26 from the
leukemic chicks was detected in both the parental and
the transformed cells. The presence of E26 DNA by
gave a positive signal after amplification. E26 cDNA by the
same procedure gave a positive signal. It is concluded that
wild type and Δmyb region mutants of E26 can infect
cells, forge and propagate in vivo. It is also shown that
the myb and Δmyb region mutants of E26 can transform
chick embryo fibroblasts in vitro. The results show that the
myb gene is sufficient for transformation.

Fig. 1. Genetic structures of E26 and the E26 myb
and Δmyb deletion mutants. (A) Restriction map of the E26 myb
deletion mutant, a prototype of cellular coding regions (see
the text). The open boxes represent the myb and novel genes
that are flanked by LTRs. The sizes of the restriction frag-
ments are indicated in base pairs (bp). (B) Schematic represen-
tation of the E26 provirus, showing the positions of the LTRs
and the myb and novel genes. The arrows indicate the direction
of transcription. (C) Genetic structure of the E26 Δmyb dele-
tion mutant.

5249