Continued from preceding page

against criticism and must guessing from others - includ-
ing "myself," as he second guessed his people, with the
stubbornness to demand results from them, to give them a
leadership to share their problems, to give them credit for
successes and take the blame for mistakes.

Elaborating, he noted, “How many consumers two years
ago really wanted luxury-length 100-millimeter cigarettes?
Probably very few. Yet today they are being sold weekly. This
full millimeter filter cigarette comes when hard-won
experience is fused with imagination.”

He told the conference that at American Tobacco, all
marketing functions are grouped under a single vice presi-
dent - “the operations include everything associated with
creating and delivering a product." And noted, "This, I
believe, is a prerequisite for effective marketing.”

PACKAGING: Holiday Cartons
Pose Questions for New Brands

The past year has seen quite a few new cigarette brands of new
holiday packaging for free brands.

Among the problems faced by manufacturers in designing
these holiday cartons were colors some traditional brand
colors clash with red or green, but removing them could hurt
brand identification; and evergreen bows (should they be
removed when holly and evergreen bows are added?).

Color was a factor in pack-
ing R. J. Reynolds’ new Camel filter. In the case of Salem
the firm simply deepened the
brand's green-blue to a holly
green. Camel uses shades
of tan and brown were moved
to one end of the carton, along
with red borders, and decorated
as game fowl regulars.

You can count on...

MAURY LEAF TOBACCO COMPANY
INCORPORATED
DEALERS AND EXPORTERS
ALL TYPES LEAF TOBACCO
Greenhaw Murry, Jr., President RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 23206
Cable "MAURRY" P.O. Box 893 U. S. A.

Cable Address: RUDACH ALL CODES USED

RUDOLPH, HACH & CO.

INCORPORATED
HOME OFFICE
CLARKSVILLE, TENN. 37041, U.S.A.

Packers - Dealers - Exporters
ALL TYPES OF LEAF TOBACCO

For Complete Tobacco
Products
and Services

It is as if Christmas holly
carton, as used by American
Tobacco, decided to keep its
other hand, the carton is the
most Murry Leaf Tobacco Com-
pany must go on with the
traditional holiday (full pack-
aging) decoration. The
key was to develop a package
that would be distinctive and
appeal to gift-givers.

The Christmas holly carton
is one of several holiday pack-
ages being offered this year by
American Tobacco Company, Inc.
Other packages include a snow
scene on white paper stock for
its Lucky Strike brand, and a
Christmas tree design for its
Pall Mall filter cigarette.

The Pall Mall package is
decorated with holly sprigs and
red berries. The Christmas hol-
ly carton has a full color Christ-
mas scene on the front panel.

It’s a seasonal offering that
should appeal to smokers and
non-smokers alike.

S

Salem

CAMEL

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.

Pall Mall

CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY PACKAGING - American Tobacco Company is offering several holiday packages this year, including this Christmas holly carton for its American cigarette brand. The Pall Mall filter cigarette has a decoration with holly sprigs and red berries.



Continued on page 31