received a huge boost from the Reader’s Digest report, has greatly stepped up distribution and is backing it with newspaper and subway advertising. Marvels and Cascade brands are now moving into some of the smaller markets.

A spokesman for the firm indicates that demand has “exploded” faster than anticipated. The company is now working on ways to further lower nicotine and "tar" content of the brand—through paper, filter and blend—in order to keep Marvels ahead in the low-tar and nicotine listings. The firm also notes that the coupons on Marvels and Cascade have been very successful and indications are that there has been a great increase in requests for gift cigars.

Although there has been no comment on potential campaigns for Duke (Ligg & Myers) or Life Brown and Williamson, both firms are reportedly interested in similar areas that campaigns for these brands—possibly involved in some hold-up at the Advertising Code office—may be in the works.

Pipe Council Objets to Ad Saying "Throw Away Pipe"

An advertisement from Gladis Ann Division of General Cigar Company for Gold Label cigar recently drew comment from the Pipe and Tobacco Executive.

According to Jerry Nagler, executive director of the council, in a letter to Walter Lyon of the Gladis Ann, it is shown a man doing other things than pipe lighting—a woman reading a book, a baby at play, a couple conversing, a man shaving. The copy reads: “Throw away your pipe. Enjoy Gold Label.”

Nagler’s letter said that the council feels such an advertisement is “not in keeping with the dignity of the pipe and tobacco habit” and that it gives the impression that smoking a pipe is something to be ashamed of. He added that the council has always insisted on maintaining the highest standards of understanding and care that we vouched our own individual associations and their products.” He commented, "It is our sincere hope that you will second look at this campaign and the hope they will reconsider this ad and ads of this type in the future."

The ad in question appeared in the New York Times magazine section, Sunday, November 13.

Burton Morton II, Annis division president, had noted then that the ad, “to our knowledge… is the first cigar advertisement ever designed to appeal to all types of smokers.” Its appeal is to (1) regular cigar smokers interested in a short smoke on occasion, (2) those who are trying to break the habit, (3) pipe smokers interested in a change of pace and a simpler method of smoking, and finally (4) women. He also noted that this is the first time anyone has shown a woman actually lighting a cigar preparatory to smoking.

Requests For Walker’s Speech
on "Marketing Man" Are Heavy

American Tobacco Company is being deluged with requests for a little booklet, “What the Chief Executive Expects of His Top Marketing Men,” which was presented at an address given by Robert B. Walker American represented from the 1954 annual meeting of the National Industrial Conference Board recently.

In the speech Mr. Walker said he expected four things of his top marketing men: (1) in the case of children, it is to be robust man which means a mere amount of advertising; (2) in the case of adults, it means that if he must be a bold innovator, not only should he choose the product but also its use—and (3) he should have a clear understanding as to why any copy or design is used.

The booklet is so popular that copies are going out at the rate of 100 a day and it is expected that the entire edition of 50,000 will be exhausted within a short time.



