THE LANCET, FEBRUARY 5, 1972

                                                                      291

Preliminary Communication

CONTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTE SMOKING
TO CADMIUM ACCUMULATION IN MAN

GEORGE P. LEWIS     WILLIAM J. HUIZING
LINDA L. COUGHLIN    STUART HARTZ

Clinical Pharmacology Section, Veterans’ Administration
Hospital, Boston, and Biostatistical Division, Boston
University Medical Center, Boston, U.S.A.

Summary Cadmium, a non-essential, potentially
toxic metal, accumulates in human
tissues with increasing age. Because some foods
contain cadmium, the diet has been considered the
major source of this element. Cigarette smoking introduces
appreciable amounts of cadmium, which on burning
passes into the smoke. Analysis of necropsy material
has shown that non-smokers accumulate smaller
amounts of cadmium in their organs than smokers. In
addition, the amount of cadmium accumulated is related
to the number of pack-years smoked. It is concluded that
tobacco constitutes a major source for cadmium
accumulation in man and that heavy smoking, inhibition
of the cadmium contained in tobacco smoke may make
a significant contribution to the total body burden than
the amount delivered by dietary intake.

                                    INTRODUCTION

Much concern has been expressed in the past few
years regarding the inadvertent exposure of the general
population to toxic trace metals. “Exposure of these tóx-
ic elements to the body, are considered sources that
effort to prevent made readily for their use. Great
efforts have been made to identify low cadmium con-
tent foods and to ensure that drinking water is so
treated as to minimize cadmium intake. It seems
that a significant contribution to the total body load
with cigarette smoking will be difficult to assess
without a detailed study of cadmium levels in various
tissues of smokers and non-smokers.

CASE HISTORIES AND METHODS

Twenty-five consecutive necropsy specimens were
obtained at the Veterans’ Administration Hospital,
Boston. The subjects included 15 smokers and 10
non-smokers. Smoking habits were determined from
hospital records and confirmed by interviews with
relatives. Pack-years smoked were calculated as the
product of the number of packs smoked per day and
the number of years smoked. Tissue samples were
obtained from the liver, kidney, lung, heart, brain,
and femur. The cadmium content was determined by
atomic absorption spectrophotometry after digestion
in nitric acid. All tissues were dried at 105°C to
constant weight before analysis.

RESULTS

The mean age of the smokers (58 years) was similar
to that of the non-smokers (62 years). The cadmium
content per gram of tissue in the liver, kidney, lung,
heart, brain, and femur is shown in Table I. Smokers
had significantly higher cadmium levels in all tissues
except the brain. The differences were statistically
significant at the 5% level for the liver, kidney, lung,
and heart (p < 0.05).

TABLE I CADMIUM CONCENTRATIONS (µg/g dry weight) IN TISSUES OF SMOKERS AND NON-SMOKERS



                                    LIVER      KIDNEY    LUNG       HEART     BRAIN      FEMUR
SMOKERS
Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.
n=15   3.24   1.60   8.97   3.10   18.8   10.2   3.85   1.90   1.58   0.60   3.90   1.80
NON-SMOKERS
Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.  Mean   S.D.
n=10   1.57   0.60   3.84   1.20   6.9    3.5    1.80   0.80   0.95   0.30   2.00   0.70



Fig. 3.-Relation of cadmium concentration to pack-years smoked.
There is a positive correlation of S.A. and positive
correlation of S.A. and positive correlation.

three human sources of M.A.O. are consistent in show-
ing a positive correlation of enzyme activity with age.
In addition, the fact that cadmium levels also rise with
age-related correlation in animals, suggests that this
age-related increase in M.A.O. is a general biological
phenomenon. The fact that cadmium concentrations cor-
related positively with pack-years smoked demonstrates
that cigarette smoking may play a role in regulating
this enzymatic system of major significance in cereb-
rospinal fluid. It has been shown that the cadmium
content of cigarettes varies considerably, depending on
the type of tobacco used and the method of processing.
The cadmium content of U.S. brands averages about 2
µg per cigarette. The amount of cadmium absorbed
from a single cigarette is not known, but it is likely to
be greater than that absorbed from dietary sources.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We are indebted to Mr. Robert J. O’Connell for his
technical assistance in the determination of cadmium
levels. This work was supported by grants AM-19458
and HL-17320 from the National Institutes of Health.



(Figure)