26 Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research.

99 THE TUMOR-INHIBITORY ACTIVITY
OF 5-FLUORO-2'-DEOXYURIDINE
Charles Heidelberger and Sandra W., 1,
McArdle Memorial Laboratory, University
of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
The above compound was synthesized in
laboratory (J. Am. Chem. Soc., 73, 3597).
It is mutagenic to bacteriophage T2, sub-
sequently to DNA (Dottlingh, J., and
Berger, J., Bull. Biol., in press), and toxic
to one of mammalian cells, and its mode of
action involves inhibition of thymidylate
synthetase (Horecker, I. L., et al., Fed. Proc.
22, 552, 1953). We
report the activity of FUDR against xen-
otransplanted mouse tumors over one week
daily for 7 days, starting 1 day prior to
implantation. FUDR significantly inhibited
growth of sarcoma-180, the ratio of the vol-
ume of treated to control tumors being 1.3 ±
0.2 versus 0.2 at effective tumor doses.
Similarly, FUDR produced a marked re-
duction (1:20) in tumor size with a 7 × 10^-^
mg/kg dose in the LOU mouse colon carci-
noma. FUT inhibits the same reaction as
FUdR, but is less potent. When FUT and
FUDR are given simultaneously, the inhibi-
tory effect is additive. The toxicity of FUDR
is considerably greater than that of FUT.
The LD50 for FUDR in mice is 14 mg/kg com-
pared to 38 mg/kg for FUT. The ratio of
the maximum tumor-inhibitory dose to the
LD50 is therefore approximately 7 for
FUDR and 16 for FUT.

100 EFFECT OF METOTREXATE ON
THE INCIDENCE OF SPONTANEOUS
MOUSE EMBRYONIC DEATHS
J. H. Staver, R. L. Moore, and J. W. McDonald,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
The incidence of spontaneous embryonic
deaths in CBA mice has been found to vary
considerably from litter to litter. The aver-
age number of dead embryos per litter is 1.8.
Metotrexate (MTX) was administered to
pregnant mice at various dosages and times
to determine its effect on the incidence of
embryonic deaths. MTX at a dose of 2 mg/kg
given on day 0 significantly increased the
number of dead embryos per litter, while
doses of 0.5 mg/kg or less had no apparent
effect. The maximum increase in embryonic
deaths occurred with a dose of 1.5 mg/kg
given on day 0, resulting in an average of
7.3 dead embryos per litter. This represents
an approximate fourfold increase over the
normal incidence. MTX given on day 3 or
later had little effect on the number of
embryonic deaths. The increased incidence
of embryonic deaths following MTX admin-
istration was accompanied by a significant
decrease in maternal weight and a slight
increase in the number of resorptions.

101 THE ACUTE HEPATATIC EFFECTS OF METOTREX-
ATE (MTX) THERAPY. E. N. Hansen, V. Wong,
E. S. Monroe, and R. L. Moore, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis. We introduced MTX
therapy into a series of patients with leukemic
liver function tests. MTX has been noted in
some instances to cause liver damage. Since
MTX is widely used in both malignant and inflam-
matory diseases, we have studied the hepato-
toxic effects with intravenous dosage
schedule of 15 mg/m^2 weekly were studied.
The patients’ diagnoses included acute leu-
kemia and peripheral vascular disease. Con-
trols were normal in all cases. At 24 hours
after MTX administration, serum glutamic
retention values were 118 units, 251 units, and
11% respectively 4 weeks after the onset
of therapy. Serum glutamic oxalacetic trans-
aminase (SGT) levels had risen to 307 units,
369 units, and 337 units, with retention val-
ues were 251 units, 287 units, and 11% re-
spectively. Abnormalities normalized spontan-
eously within two weeks after cessation of
therapy. These successive courses of MTX
induced reversible hepatic damage. All nine
patients had elevated serum glutamic oxalacetic
transaminase (SGT) levels at some time dur-
ing the course of therapy, and eight patients
had elevated serum glutamic retention values.
One patient developed jaundice during the third
week of therapy. The liver function tests re-
turned to normal spontaneously within two
weeks after cessation of MTX therapy. These
observations suggest that MTX can cause re-
versible hepatic damage in man, and that
patients receiving this drug should be moni-
tored for signs of liver dysfunction.

102 STUDIES ON THE EFFECT OF
RADIATION AND DRUGS ON
THE GROWTH OF SPONTANEOUS
MOUSE EMBRYOS. J. W. McDonald,
R. L. Moore, and J. H. Staver, University
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
The effect of X-irradiation on the growth
of spontaneous mouse embryos was studied.
Pregnant mice were exposed to 50 r of X-
radiation on day 0, 3, or 6 of gestation. The
number of dead embryos per litter was signifi-
cantly increased by irradiation on day 0, but
not on days 3 or 6. The maximum increase
in embryonic deaths occurred with irradi-
ation on day 0, resulting in an average of
4.7 dead embryos per litter compared to 1.8
in the control group. Irradiation on day 0
was also accompanied by a significant de-
crease in maternal weight and a slight in-
crease in the number of resorptions. The
effect of metotrexate (MTX) on the growth
of spontaneous mouse embryos was also stud-
ied. MTX at a dose of 2 mg/kg given on day
0 significantly increased the number of dead
embryos per litter, while doses of 0.5 mg/kg
or less had no apparent effect. The maximum
increase in embryonic deaths occurred with a
dose of 1.5 mg/kg given on day 0, resulting
in an average of 7.3 dead embryos per liter.



