The type of filter for the supply air and, in some
cases, the return air should be selected with care
and humidity controls have to be carefully designed
to prevent condensation. The effect of ventilation
must be examined because of the environment
impact on the occupants’ thermal comfort. A typical
construction cost must be considered. This paper shows
ways of achieving this.

LANG CONSTRUCTION AND SYSTEMATIC LABORATO-
RIES, 218 Commerce Drive, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.,
Assoc. Mgr., Mech. Disciplines, B. Setty; Member
ASHRAE. A systematic approach to building design
is described. The process is applied to a 37,000 sq. ft.
office building in Poughkeepsie, N. Y. The project
includes a central heating and cooling plant with
distribution through the building via fan coil units.
The paper discusses the selection of equipment,
cost justification for the use of air filters in 1973,
and the application of computer methods to design
the distribution system.

SYMPOSIUM DISCUSSION

J. W. Kincaid, Jr., Pres., Carrier Engineering, Inc.,
East Hartford, Conn., presented the discussion.

The paper presents a systematic approach to building
design and is well organized. The cost justification
for air filters is particularly interesting.

D. E. Conover, Trane Co., La Crosse, Wis., pointed
out that the systematic approach described in the
paper could be applied to many different types of
buildings.

R. P. Baker, Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.,
commented on the importance of considering the
effect of ventilation on occupants’ thermal comfort.

W. B. Stine, Univ. of Kansas, Lawrence, Kan., noted
that the paper provides a good example of how to
apply computer methods to building design.

J. W. Kincaid, Jr., suggested that future papers in
this series might include more detail on the effect
of ventilation on occupants’ thermal comfort.

SYMPOSIUM DC-41: HVAC IS FOR PEOPLE

Chair—F. Rolfes, Jr., Member ASHRAE, Prof.
Emeritus, Univ. of Kansas, Lawrence, Kan.; Rolfes
and Dir., Environmental Research, Manhattan, Kas.

The final subject is a heating, ventilating and
air conditioning system as it is incorporated in equip-
ment for human comfort. The first paper is “Effects
of Air Velocity on Thermal Comfort” by J. W. Dyk-
stra and F. P. Nelson. This paper describes an ex-
periment conducted to determine the effect of air velo-
city on thermal comfort. A wind tunnel was con-
structed with a 12 ft x 12 ft floor area, 8 ft high,
and equipped with adjustable openings in the side walls
to permit control of air velocity. The temperature
was maintained at 70°F and relative humidity at 50%.
Subjects were placed on a rotating platform in the cen-
ter of the wind tunnel and exposed to various air ve-
locities. The subjects rated their thermal comfort on
a seven-point scale. The results showed that there was
a significant difference in thermal comfort ratings be-
tween air velocities of 200 fpm and 400 fpm. It
was concluded that air velocity is an important factor
in thermal comfort.

The second paper is “Thermal Comfort and Office
Environment” by R. H. Stine, J. W. Dykstra, and F. P.
Nelson. This paper describes a study of the effects of
office environment on thermal comfort. The study in-
volved two groups of subjects: one group exposed to
a normal office environment and another group ex-
posed to an altered office environment. The alter-
ed office environment included higher air velocities,
lower temperatures, and more natural light. The sub-
jects rated their thermal comfort on a seven-point
scale. The results showed that the subjects in the al-
tered office environment reported significantly high-
er levels of thermal comfort than those in the normal
office environment. It was concluded that the office
environment can have a significant effect on thermal
comfort.

The third paper is “Thermal Comfort and Clothing”
by J. W. Dykstra, R. H. Stine, and F. P. Nelson. This
paper describes a study of the effects of clothing on
thermal comfort. The study involved two groups of
subjects: one group wearing light clothing and an-
other group wearing heavy clothing. The subjects were
exposed to various temperatures and air velocities.
The subjects rated their thermal comfort on a seven-
point scale. The results showed that the subjects wear-
ing light clothing reported significantly higher levels
of thermal comfort than those wearing heavy cloth-
ing. It was concluded that clothing can have a sig-
nificant effect on thermal comfort.

temperature of the circulating air was raised, but as
the temperature increased, the occupants’ ratings de-
creased. In the second study, the room had sides of
glass and the subjects were seated in front of a window
representing four different views with each
view having a different degree of visual complexity.
The results showed that it was possible to higher thermal
comfort by providing more complex views.

The third study designed to study the effects of oc-
cupants’ clothing on thermal comfort involved 34 male
subjects exposed to a room at 70°F, 50% relative
humidity and 200 fpm air velocity. The subjects were
divided into two groups: one group wearing light
clothing (two males and two females) The results showed
that there was a significant difference in thermal com-
fort ratings between the two groups. It was con-
cluded that clothing can have a significant effect on
thermal comfort.

The fourth study designed to study the effects of
air movement on thermal comfort involved 34 male
subjects exposed to a room at 70°F, 50% relative
humidity and 200 fpm air velocity. The subjects were
divided into two groups: one group exposed to a high-
er air velocity (400 fpm) and the other group ex-
posed to a lower air velocity (100 fpm). The results
showed that there was a significant difference in ther-
mal comfort ratings between the two groups. It was
concluded that air movement can have a significant
effect on thermal comfort.

SYMPOSIUM DISCUSSION

R. P. Baker, Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.,
commented that the papers presented were well done
and provided valuable information about thermal com-
fort. He noted that the studies were conducted under
controlled laboratory conditions and that the results
may not be generalizable to real-world situations.

J. W. Kincaid, Jr., Pres., Carrier Engineering, Inc.,
East Hartford, Conn., suggested that future papers in
this series might include more detail on the effects of
humidity on thermal comfort.

F. Rolfes, Jr., Univ. of Kansas, Lawrence, Kan.,
commented that the papers presented were a good start-
ing point for understanding the complex relationship
between humans and their environment. He noted that
there is still much to be learned about thermal com-
fort.

ASHRAE 93 Total Heating and Cooling Load Calcula-
tions—A User’s Manual. ASHRAE, 1975.

A. H. Aspenson, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.,
pointed out that the manual provides a comprehensive
guide to performing total heating and cooling load
calculations. He noted that the manual is written in
a clear and concise style and that it includes many
helpful examples.

J. W. Kincaid, Jr., suggested that future papers in
this series might include more detail on the effects of
sound on thermal comfort.



