RECEIVED
NOV 1 2 1970
PHILIP MORRIS, INC.
RESEARCH CENTER LIBRARY

THE
NEW ZEALAND
MEDICAL JOURNAL

SEPTEMBER, 1970 Number 460

Volume 72



Adolescent Cigarette Smoking

L. Y. Newman MSc PhD
Associate of Preventive Medicine, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska
J. Aug MEd
Teacher, Hamilton Teachers’ College, Hamilton, New Zealand
R. P. Irwin MSc PhD
Principal Lecturer, Hamilton Technical College, Hamilton, New Zealand
Joy McC Smith
Lecturer, Colleges of Physical Education, Sussex, Great Britain

SUMMARY                                         done to determine the nature and extent of cigarette
A questionnaire was administered to 2,024 male smoking among New Zealand adolescents. The
and female high school students from both North accumulation of scientific evidence implicating cigar-
and South Island schools. Results of the survey ette smoking as a cause of lung cancer, emphy-
indicate that one quarter of New Zealand high sema and heart disease make it imperative to
school students are cigarette smokers. In consider the prevalence and patterns of cigarette
addition, it is reported that, while more males than smoking among the nation’s young people. In addi-
females began smoking at an earlier age, tion, a clearer picture of adolescent smokers and non-
begin their smoking earlier than males. Students smokers will provide useful information for those
who started smoking before fifteen years of age who raise health education as a principal method of
year tend to select filter tipped cigarettes. reducing diseases related to cigarette smoking.
Realize cigarette had lower educational aspirations
and were more likely to be regular non-smokers. THE STUDY
A higher percentage of female smokers are under The present report is based on information on
sixteen years of age than male smokers, and personal data, obtained from a confidential
there was also evidence that a higher percentage questionnaire, from 2,024 male and 1,018 female high
of female smokers involved in sport. In addition, school students. The students represented both rural
to confirm the medical evidence of the risks of and urban areas, and were drawn from schools in all
smoking, continuing studies are required to com- Islands, among those situated between North and
plete this evaluation of the health implications of South Island. 

cigarette smoking among programmes to reduce
risks.                                           MATERIALS AND METHODS
The study was designed to provide information Distribution of Questionnaires
on cigarette smoking habits in New Zealand A questionnaire was distributed to 2,024 male
adolescents. Previous studies have been limited and 1,018 female high school students attending
to small groups or have not provided a clear schools in both the North and South Islands. The
picture of the patterns of cigarette smoking. It was questionnaires were administered by teachers in
therefore considered important to undertake work classrooms during normal class time.



2023057685