³H-Post-labeling analysis of DNA adducts formed in the livers of animals treated with safrole, estragole and other naturally-occurring alkylbenzenes. II. Newborn male B6C3F₁ mice

David H. Phillips, M. Vijayarry Reddy¹ and Kurt Randerath²

Cheer Botany Laboratories, Cancer Center of Southwestern Royal Cancer
Hospital, London SW3 6LY, UK and Department of
Pathology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77020, USA

When a series of alkylbenzenes were administered to
pre-treated male mice, safrole and methylugenol
induced a significant incidence of hepatic carcinomas, while
estragole, eugenol, methyleugenol, dill oil and parsley
oil did not (Miller et al., Cancer Res., 43, 1124–1134, 1983).
To investigate the formation of DNA adducts in these com-
pounds, male C3H/B6F₁ mice were injected with
0.25, 0.5, 1.0 and 3.0 µmol of a compound on days 1, 3, 5,
7 and 9 after birth. Animals were killed on days 21, 24 and
27 and their livers isolated on days 23, 26 and 29 and
analyzed for ³H-post-labeled DNA adducts. The highest
levels of adducts were detected with propytene (72±7 nmol/g DNA), estragole (30 ± 4 nmol/g DNA)
and safrole (18 ± 2 nmol/g DNA). Significant amounts of
DNA adducts were present at the same time as the
levels of proteins that bind to DNA (3.0 fmol/g DNA) and
ducts were less persistent. Only low levels of DNA ad-
ducts were detected with methylugenol, dill oil and par-
sley oil. 1′-hydroxyestragole and 1′-hydroxysafrole were
isolated from the livers of animals treated with estragole
and safrole, respectively. These compounds could not be
separated from estragole and safrole by gas chromatog-
raphy but were separated by high-performance liquid
chromatography. 1′-hydroxyestragole and 1′-hydroxysafrole were chromato-
graphically indistinguishable from those obtained when the
parent compounds, estragole and safrole, respectively, were reacted with dioxobutlenes (14, 15).
There is now strong evidence for the formation of the
sulfate ester of 1′-hydroxysafrole as the ultimate car-
cinogenic form of 1′-hydroxysafrole in mouse liver (16, 17).
A major feature common to most carcinogens is the
covalent binding of their ultimately-reactive metabolites
to DNA (17). In the accompanying paper (18), we describe the
development of a ³H-post-labeling analysis recently developed
in one of our laboratories (9–12) for the detection of
alkylbenzeno-DNA adducts in the livers of safrole
CD-1 mice following a single i.p. injection of test compound.
However, to minimize variability, animals were frequently
treated with multiple treatments or continuous administra-
tion of test compounds. Because post-labeling analysis does
not require large amounts of DNA, we have extended the
detection of carcinogen-DNA adducts formed in vivo for its
use in a study applicable to examining levels and persis-
tence of adducts formed by multiple treatments or con-
tinuous administration. Because this can be done with a
relatively small number of animals, the method is suited
to allow experiments which would otherwise require a large
number of animals, such as shown in a study following
multiple injections protocol in male C3H/B6F₁ mice (Fig. 1).

Carcinogenesis vol.5 no.12 pp.1623–1638, 1984



