Potential Defense Fund. 1976.
AA. Telemetry reliability
and its implications for
L. 1973:10-12.
J.A.S. Regression
by telemetric variables
in epidemiological studies.
N.E. J. Epidemiol. 1984; 110:
562-565.
R.L. McLaughlin requires in geo-
metry for the analysis of
mixed errors. Biometrics 1983; in
press.
M. Malin is an epidemiological
statistician. He has been
instrumental in cancer statis-
tics training. World & Berg-
man, Inc.

J.L. Mccoy D. et al. Noninvasive
way to ease cancer Res.

ADULT PASSIVE SMOKING IN THE HOME ENVIRONMENT. A RISK
FACTOR FOR CHRONIC AIRFLOW LIMITATION

FRANCINE KAUFFMANN, JEAN-FRANCOIS TESSER and PAUL ORIOL

Kauffmann F, Ginsberg U, 168, Forest (Villejuif Cedex, France), J.F. Tes-
ser and P. Oriol. Adult passive smoking in the home environment: a risk factor
for chronic airflow limitation. Am. J. Epidemiol. 1983;117:266-80.
Using the data of the French Cooperative Study, which in 1975 surveyed
more than 1500 households of seven cities throughout France, the authors
compared the respiratory function of non-smokers who lived with smokers
with and without exposure to passive smoking in the home. They restricted
the analysis to adults aged 35 to 64 years who were not themselves
smokers (or had smoked only by their spouses) and who were living
in households where at least one person smoked more than 10 cigarettes a day.
The authors found that non-smokers of either sex whose
individuals, the number of cigarettes smoked daily by a husband or par-
ner was associated with an increased risk of reduced FEV1, even after
allowing for other potential confounding factors (such as age, educa-
tion, and family size). When among women who passive smoking is
more likely to be associated with a reduction in FEV1 than it is clear
men. The authors also found that the risk was greater for non-smokers who
work outside the home (i.e., those who travel between home and work-
place) among women than among men (1983;266, 270).

Key words: Passive smoking, chronic airflow limitation, FEV1, respi-
ratory function.

Adult passive smoking as a risk factor for decreased airflow is not
a new finding. It has been demonstrated in Japan (1) and elsewhere (2),
and it is consistent with earlier observations that children who are exposed
to cigarette smoke have reduced ventilatory function (3). The French Coop-
erative Study is unique, however, in its careful assessment of the impact
of passive smoking on the respiratory health of adults.

The study was conducted as part of a broader investigation of respi-
ratory disease in France. The authors are to be commended for their
methodological rigor and for their important contribution to our under-
standing of the effects of environmental tobacco smoke.

References

1.  Miyata Y, et al. Effects of passive smoking on pulmonary function in
    Japanese men. Chest 1982;61:405-9.
2.  Lippmann M, Morris F. Environmental tobacco smoke and respiratory
    health. Environ Health Perspect 1981;38:173-8.
3.  U.S. Public Health Service. Respiratory effects of passive smoking: a
    review of the epidemiologic evidence. Washington, DC: U.S. Depart-
    ment of Health and Human Services, 1981.



