Association of Dietary Fat and Lung Cancer 1,2

Ernst L. Wynder, M.D.,³ James R. Hebert, Sc.D.,³ and Geoffrey C[?]asat. ROGER CALMAN
PM COMPANIES, INC.

ABSTRACT—An international comparison study of the relation- METHODS
ship among dietary predictors, tobacco consumption, incomes, and OCT 2 2 1984/
truncated age-adjusted lung cancer mortality was conducted with
the use of data from 107 countries. A regression analysis Data sources—Each of the 43 countries used in this
weighting each country to the square root of the appro- analysis had a mid-1978 population in excess of
priate population and adjusting for several covariates showed that 1,000,000 persons. Of these 43 countries, all but South
calories from fat were significantly associated Africa had sufficient data for multivariable analyses. A
(P<0.001) with lung cancer mortality. This finding was obtained validation of results based on all 42 countries has less
after accounting for disappearance data for tobacco (P<0.001). than 15% of the deaths classified as due to ill-defined symp-
The dominant risk factor for lung cancer, and total calories toms or conditions (ICD8° 780–796) (9).
(P < .02). Other covariates included per capita gross national
product and proportion of calories from fruits, vegetables, roots, In the multivariable analyses, the outcome variable
tubers, and pulses. Weaknesses of this study, statistical considera- was age-adjusted lung cancer mortality rates by
tions, biologic plausibility, in particular the modulation of tobacco direct method; the age-straturn-specific 42-country
smoke carcinogens by lipids in the lung, and suggestions for average populations). Lung cancer mortality rates by
future study are discussed.—UNCJ 1984; 79:631–637. country were mortality data from the period 1974
to 1979 (10, 11). Predictors were total calories, calories to-
Smoking, especially of cigarettes, is the major estab- tal fat, animal fat, animal protein, vegetable fat,
lished cause of lung cancer (1). To fully account for vegetable foods. Nonnutritional variables considered
one must consider other factors. There is increasing evi- were tobacco disappearance and per capita GNP. All
dence that dietary factors may influence the risk of lung values were derived on a per capita basis, and all but
cancer (2, 3). This study examines the association be- per capita GNP data are based on disappearance data™.
tween diet and lung cancer mortality in 43 countries. Tobacco disappearance was calculated for approximately
The study is limited to countries with adequate data on 20 years, and food values were aggregated for all
both diet and lung cancer mortality. available data. Country ranking were labeled for 10
years because they do not change in a short time.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Data—Age-adjusted lung cancer mortality rates (per
Sources of data included the World Bank (4), the Food 1,000,000 population) were obtained from the WHO
and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (5), and (12). Data on tobacco disappearance were obtained
the Central Intelligence Agency (6). The period used was from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (13). Per
1974 to 1979, which allowed for a comparison of countries capita GNP data were obtained from the World Bank
with similar levels of economic development. (4).

The following dietary predictors were considered: total
calories, calories from fat, animal fat, animal protein,
vegetable fat, and vegetable foods. Nonnutritional vari-
ables included tobacco disappearance and per capita gross
national product. All values were derived on a per capita
basis.

Statistical analysis was performed using multiple linear
regression. Countries were weighted to the square root of
the appropriate population.