Cigarette smoking and the induction of lung cancer in mice

R.J.C. HARRIS and G. NEGRONI*

Division of Experimental Biology and Virology, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, London, England, U.K.

INTRODUCTION

There have been statistical data for more than fifteen years to show that lung cancer in man is associated with cigarette smoking (Wynder and Graham, 1950; Doll and Bradford Hill, 1952; Report to Medical Research Council, 1953; Report to Surgeon General, U.S. Public Health Service, 1964). To some these data are acceptable as proof of an aetiological association. Others, however, have not un- reasonably demanded experimental evidence of a more convincing kind. Many attempts have been made to obtain this by exposing laboratory animals directly to cigarette smoke. There has been no conclusive proof of malignant changes in the respiratory tract, under such conditions, and squamous metaplasia has never been recorded. We were impressed by the results of Koin and Weiss (1963) who had subjected their mice to sequential treatment with influenza viruses and a synthetic Los Angeles smog of ozonized hydrocarbons and had obtained squamous metaplasia and, on the other hand, by the negative results with smoke inhalation reported by Leuchtenberger et al. (1963). We suspected, therefore, that rodents exposed to cigarette smoke in large chambers (Leuchten-

*We wish to acknowledge our gratitude to all those who have helped us in these experiments, particularly to Mr. D.J. Sothern, Miss J. Freeman, Dr. H.G.A. Coughlan, S. Bridge, Mrs. R. Dennis, Mrs. N. Price and the II. & I. Inst. Co. Ltd., W.T. Court (who constructed the smoke machine) and to the British American Tobacco Coy. (London Imperial Tobacco Co., Ltd., Bristol), and the Tobacco Research Council for, in particular, his Director, Mr. G.J. Wade, for his financial support. Mr. D.J. Sothern photographed the figures and advised. Mr. J. Wrigglesworth drew the figures under the supervision of Miss P.A. Crook and Dr. H.M. Derfel of TREL. For their kind advice and assistance with aerosol generators and respirators respectively.

497
36 Lung Tumours in animals.