WSL -> Dr. C Ellis

Environmental Health Perspectives
Vol. 80, pp. 17–26, 1996

Genetic Modulation of the Cellular
Antioxidant Defense Capacity

by Paul Amstad* and Peter Cerutti*

Oxidants are ubiquitous in our aerobic environment. While they are always useful, they can also exert
pathophysiological effects at low concentrations and thus are strategists in human disease. Thus far,
oxidants have been implicated as mediators of cellular damage and as regulators of the antioxidant defense
system. Besides its effect of oxidants are products of the metabolic reactions (SOD), and glutathione peroxidase.
We are attempting to modulate the expression of CuZn-superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD) and catalase.
experimental JBR cells were found that the production is more pronounced in superoxide levels of mouse
embryos. We propose that the growth-stimulating effect of oxidants is more pronounced in primordial clones of
JBR cells with higher levels of Cu-Zn-SOD and CAT by transfection with expression vectors containing
the SOD and CAT genes, respectively. The JBR cells were transfected with a vector containing SOD-DNA in the antisense orientation. These cell
lines exhibited increased resistance to oxidative stress and enhanced antioxidant defense capacity. We are being
more modular oxidants and thus, we’re limiting our properties may generate a cellular prooxidant
state by a variety of mechanisms. The evidence that loss of enzymes activity was
due to an increase in superoxide levels. In JBR cells this loss of enzymes activity was
associated with the steady-state concentration of SOD mRNA. The observed decrease in
SOD and CAT genes is being studied as part of the reprogramming of gene expression after cell death in
mouse by CAT.

Introduction

Oxidants are toxic to most cells. They inflict damage
on several targets, more importantly DNA, lipids, and
proteins. The deleterious effects of oxidants are an
important determinant of aging and a variety of human
diseases. 

It is well known that the body has evolved a complex
antioxidant defense system to protect against oxidative
damage. This system includes both enzymatic and non-
enzymatic components. Enzymatic antioxidants include
superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione
peroxidase (GPx), and glutathione reductase (GR). Non-
enzymatic antioxidants include vitamins E and C,
glutathione, carotenoids, and various metal chelators.

Oxidants can also act as signaling molecules in a
variety of cellular processes. Oxidants are involved in
the regulation of gene expression, cell proliferation, and
differentiation. In some cases, oxidants may even
promote apoptosis. 

The following section alternates tumorigenesis (1-4). The following
section promotes tumorigenesis (1-4). Oxidants and cellular proaction
often signal alterations in damaging selective
processes. Signal transduction pathways involving activation
of protein kinases, such as mitogen-activated protein
kinase (MAPK), are involved in the regulation of gene
expression (5, 6). The MAPK pathway is a heterogenous
group of serine/threonine kinases that transduce signals
from cell surface receptors to the nucleus, where they
regulate the activity of transcription factors. Activation
of MAPK can lead to increased expression of immediate-
early genes, such as c-fos and fibronectin (7). 

We have been studying the role of oxidants in the
regulation of gene expression in mouse primordial germ
cells (PGCs) (8). PGCs are a specialized population of
embryonic cells that give rise to sperm and eggs. These
cells are initially located in the allantois, where they
undergo a series of developmental events. During this
period, PGCs become highly sensitive to oxidative stress.

*To whom requests for reprints should be addressed at Department of
Biological Chemistry, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143.