The association between Cigarette Smoking and Age at Cancer Diagnosis

BY ARTHUR M. MICHAEL* AND K. MICHAEL CUMMINGS'

Abstract The relationship between cigarette smoking and age at cancer diagnosis was examined separately for a variety of cancers in two popula- tions of cancer patients representing two different eras spanning a 15 year period. One population consisted of cancer cases diagnosed in New York, Roswell Park Memorial Institute between 1971 and 1985. The second study population included over 10,000 cancer cases diagnosed in the greater New York area between 1979 and 1982. The relationship between cigarette smoking and age at diagnosis was found to be consistent for cancer sites examined in both populations. Current smokers were found to be, on average, four years younger than non-smokers at diagnosis. This difference is attributable to immunologic properties of cigarette smoke resulting in earlier age at cancer diagnosis.

Numerous epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that cigarette smokin increases a person’s risk of developing cancer (US Public Health Service, 1981; Doll and Peto 1981). However, the effect of cigarette smoking may not just simply lead to an increased risk of developing cancer. Cigarette smoking may also contribute to the occurrence of cancer at an earlier age due to immunologic properties (Pretsch et al. 1980) observed that among patients with bladder cancer, current smokers were on average four years younger at diagnosis than persons who had never smoked, and five years younger than former smokers. The authors speculated that cigarette smoking may decrease the body’s re- sponse to tumor antigens, thereby delaying the recognition of tumors and leading them to diagnosis. Experimental studies with animals have shown that chronic exposure to cigarette smoke results in impaired immune responsiveness (Esber et al. 1973; Thomas et al. 1973; 1974a, b; Webb et al. 1973; Jacob et al. 1980). There is also evidence that the immune response may be depressed in human cancer patients (Fink et al. 1971).

However, the association between age, cigarette smoking, and occurrence of cancer is complex and difficult to disentangle. For most cancer sites, the risk



Education Departments, Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, New York 14263.
*Supported by US Public Health Service Grant CA-32859.

208386526