1947

SIMON FRAZER UNIVERSITY

BURNABY BRITISH COLUMBIA

6368

DOES SMOKING KILL WORKERS OR WORKING KILL SMOKERS?
OR
THE MUTUAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SMOKING,
OCCUPATION, AND RESPIRATORY DISEASE

Theodor D. Sterling

Evidence accumulated since 1948 suggests that cigarette smoking may be the primary cause of lung disease, especially of cancer and chronic obstructive diseases. Comparisons of groups of blue-collar workers with those who would include many more in dominant groups with a high proportion of managers, comparisons of groups having lower proportions of blue-collar workers, and comparisons of groups having higher proportions of managers, suggest many diseases associated with smoking actually may be of occupational origin. Studies of industrial populations have failed to find smoking to be a major cause (in some, not all) of lung cancer that follow in time after the individual entered employment. This is a curious finding because it suggests that exposure to noxious agents has been more important than cigarette smoking. Thus, the relationship between occupation, and disease may be more complex than previously assumed, and we must consider the effects of occupational and environmental exposures to toxic substances.

While cigarette smoking has been widely accepted by physicians and public health workers alike as the major cause of lung disease, a number of scientists have continued to point out that many respiratory diseases are associated with occupations and poorly designed and incorrectly analyzed studies (1, 2). Evidence accumu- lated since 1948 suggests that cigarette smoking may be the primary cause of lung disease, especially of cancer and chronic obstructive disease.

This evidence will be evaluated and organized around the answers to four central questions:

• Why is it important to reevaluate the relative effects of smoking and occupation on lung disease?

Prepared for the School for Workers, University of Wisconsin, short course entitled “Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health,” held in Madison, Wisconsin, July 17-21, 1977. At Institute for Work and Family.

*International Journal of Industrial Surgery, Volume 3, Number 3, 1978.*
© 1978, Baywood Publishing Co., Inc.

437

20230825-1