Pet birds as a risk factor
for lung cancer

Sir,— Drs Peter A Holgate and others suggest that keeping birds is an independent risk factor for lung
cancer. Their study of 879 households (p 45) includes
49 patients included in the study. They propose
that exposure to avian antigens may induce a type II
hypersensitivity reaction, which could lead to chronic
inflammation and subsequent cancer. The evidence
given to support this hypothesis” do
not seem compelling. Other possible explanations
authors, McSherry et al described a decreased
incidence of lung cancer in pigeon breeders, suggesting
that exposure to avian antigens may induce tolerance
to certain allergens, such as pigeon antigen E
(pigeon ornithosis). The study by Holgate et al also
mentions the possibility of exposure to Aspergillus
flavus (hypersensitivity pneumonitis) and mycotoxins.
The latter are not necessarily associated with bird
keeping, but may be present in poorly ventilated
buildings. It is possible that some patients who keep
birds are exposed to these allergens or toxins, which
may contribute to the development of lung cancer.
However, it is also possible that the association between
bird keeping and lung cancer is due to other factors,
such as smoking or exposure to asbestos. The study
found a greatly increased numbers of antigens
in the homes of bird keepers, but did not measure
the effect on the respiratory system. P (Holgate et al)
also mention that bird keepers are more likely to be
chemists. Holgate, 1987 is not in keeping with
the current view and people do not seem very
immunocompromised.

K P JONES
M B. FRCP
Department of Microbiology
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh EH3 9SY

Address for correspondence:
Dr K P Jones

I refer to Peter A. Holgate, David S. Strachan, M.B., F.R.C.P.,
and others. “Pet birds as a risk factor for lung cancer,” p 45.
The study is interesting but I think it has some limitations.
Firstly, the number of patients included in the study is small.
Secondly, the study does not take into account other factors
that may contribute to the development of lung cancer, such
as smoking or exposure to asbestos. Thirdly, the study does
not measure the effect of bird antigens on the respiratory
system. Finally, the study does not consider the possibility
that bird keepers are more likely to be chemists.

I think that it is premature to conclude that keeping birds is
a risk factor for lung cancer. More research is needed before
such a conclusion can be drawn.

Yours sincerely,

A PATRICK OLIVER
M.D.

I am writing in response to the article by Peter A. Holgate
et al. “Pet birds as a risk factor for lung cancer,” p 45. I
believe that the study is flawed and that its conclusions are
not supported by the data. Firstly, the sample size is too
small to draw any meaningful conclusions. Secondly, the
study does not adequately control for confounding factors such
as smoking and exposure to asbestos. Thirdly, the study does
not measure the effect of bird antigens on the respiratory
system. Finally, the study does not consider the possibility
that bird keepers are more likely to be chemists.

I believe that it is premature to conclude that keeping birds
is a risk factor for lung cancer. More research is needed
before such a conclusion can be drawn.

Yours sincerely,

JOHN SMITH
M.D.



DB3

451

208595803



120 BMJ VOLUME 296 14 JANUARY 1999