548 22 (N) 8 May 92
(in lenien conducting the foliswion)
pp 10-16

Investigations of Indoor Air Quality
at Four Large Office Buildings

Guy B. Oldaker III, Ph.D.; W. David Taylor, CIII, CSP; Ken R. Parrish, BSME, P.E.

ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION

Investigations were performed in four large office Over the past decade there has been an increasing
buildings to assess the relationships among ventilation, awareness of the role that the indoor environment can
smoking practices, and concentrations of indoor air play in determining total exposure to contami-
quality (IAQ). Two types of heating, ventilating and air-nants. A considerable amount of research has been
conditioning (HVAC) systems were examined: constant air done to assess exposures in various environmen-
volume (CAV) and variable air volume (VAV). Two types tal settings, offices, restaurants, and aircraft cabins,
of smoking policy were examined: unrestricted smoking such as hot. Research also has been done to assess
and restricted smoking to designated areas. The four exposure to specific classes of contaminants, such as
buildings represented all combinations of these four vari- volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Part of our research
ables. One of each of the four buildings was investigated, with program (Oldaker, 1990) has been directed at assessing
HVAC systems were not in economizer mode, and with exposure in offices to environmental tobacco smoke
minimal outside air. Inspections of the HVAC systems (ETS), which is defined as the diluted used mixture
indicated that both unrestricted smoking and maintenance of sidestream smoke and exhaled mainstream smoke
were unacceptable. Ventilation was measured by standard pro- which originates from burning tobacco [National Re-
cedures based on velocity traverses. search Council, 1986].

During the tests, all four systems provided ventilation Generally, the level of a contaminant in the indoor
rates essentially conforming to ASHRAE standards (52 air is the result of interplay between the sources of the
1983). Indoor concentrations of particulate matter con- contaminant and factors that remove the contami-
taminant (TSP) were determined in outside and nant. Ventilation is one important factor, but it is the
inside air streams using a model 140 TSP indicator. main removal factor. As used here, ventilation is the
Indoor concentrations of formaldehyde (HCHO), per- process by which contaminated air is diluted and
chloroethylene, benzene, toluene, xylene, trichloro- properly distributed and exhausted in order to process
ethylene, and carbon monoxide (CO) were determined with minimize contamiants and to prevent pollution.[Vre
gas chromatographs. Indoor concentrations of 1,2- di- American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-
chloroethane were measured using a gas chromatograph Conditioning Engineers, 1983]. This paper will dis-
with electron capture detector (ECD). Carbon dioxide cuss the results of an investigation of indoor air qual-
(CO2) concentrations were determined with nondisper- ity in four large office buildings. The buildings dif-
sive infrared analyzers. Results indicated that ETS was fered in their heating, ventilating and air conditioning
the predominant contaminant in offices where smoking (HVAC) systems and in the smoking policies in effect.
was unrestricted. Formaldehyde concentrations were This investigation was performed as part of a larger
generally low. The ventilation rates in the four buildings study of indoor air quality in various commercial set-
were essentially the same, but the indoor air quality tings [Oldaker, 1990].
varied considerably depending on smoking practices.



