Environmental Tobacco Smoke and
Lung Cancer in Nonsmoking Women

A Multicenter Study

Elizabeth T. H. Froothim, DrPH; Pelayo Correa MD; Peggy Reynolds, PhD; Anna Wu-Williams, PhD;
Patricia J. Butler, PhD; Raymond S. Greenberg, MD; Philip W. Chen, PhD; Toni Altieri, PhD;
Peggy Boyd, PhD; Donald F. Austin, MD; Jonathan Lift, PhD

Objective.—To determine the relative risk (RR) of lung cancer in lifetime never
smokers associated with environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) exposure.
Design—A population-based case-control study.
Setting—Five metropolitan areas in the United States: Atlanta, GA; Houston,
TX; Los Angeles, CA; New Orleans, LA; and San Francisco, CA.
Patients or Other Participants.—653 cases with confirmed lung cancer and 1283 controls selected by random dial-
ing and neighborhood sampling from the Health Care Financing Administration lists
for women aged 65 years and older.

Main Outcome Measure.—The RR of lung cancer, estimated by adjusted odds
ratio (OR) with a 95% confidence interval (CI), associated with ETS exposure.
Results.—A significant association was found between ETS exposure and risk
of all types of primary lung carcinoma (adjusted OR=1.29; P<.05; 95% CI, .95–
1.64). A stronger association was observed for adenocarcinoma (adjusted OR=1.83;
P<.01; 95% CI, 1.13–2.97) and squamous cell carcinoma (adjusted OR=1.64;
P<.01; 95% CI, 1.03–2.64). The risk of lung cancer in nonsmokers was about twice as high
with 8 or more years of exposure to ETS compared with those with no exposure.
The risk of lung cancer from a spouse (adjusted OR=1.57; 95% CI, 1.03–2.42)
was nearly as high as that from parents (adjusted OR=1.86; 95% CI, 1.16–
3.03). The risk of lung cancer was also elevated among women exposed to ETS
during childhood (adjusted OR=1.37; 95% CI, .94–2.01).
Conclusions.—Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke is associated with an
increased risk of lung cancer in lifetime never smokers. The magnitude of the risk
is comparable to that observed for other established risk factors for lung cancer,
such as asbestos and radon.

From the Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, MD; Department of Preventive Medicine, Emory University School of
Public Health, Atlanta, GA; Department of Epidemiology, University of Texas
Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX; Department of Family Medi-
cine, Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Public Health, Los Angeles, CA;
Department of Community Health Sciences, Tulane University School of Public
Health, New Orleans, LA; and Department of Preventive Medicine, University of
California Medical Center, San Francisco, CA.

Supported by the National Cancer Institute (Grant No. 5 R01 CA48739).
Address reprint requests to Dr. Elizabeth T. H. Froothim, Division of Cancer
Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, Building 32, Room 220,
Bethesda, MD 20892.

Accepted for publication June 15, 1988.

To the US summary relative risk (RR)
estimate for lung cancer in lifetime never
smokers associated with ETS exposure
and “ever exposed” to spouses! ETS
exposure is a significant risk factor for
the highest level of spousal ETS exposure
in this study. The findings from the EPA
report reflected the large number of
studies that have examined lung cancer
(N=426), as well as the study design used
to estimate the RR. This study was
designed specifically to evaluate the role
of ETS in lung cancer among lifetime
cancer in lifetime nonsmokers.

The findings from our study are con-
sistent with those of previous reports. 13,14
Because these studies have a limited
impact on the summary US risk esti-
mate, the EPA report included data from
the summary US risk estimate is 1.29 (95%
CI, .95–1.64). The magnitude of this risk
is comparable to that observed for other
established risk factors for lung cancer,
such as asbestos and radon. 15-17
The findings from our study are con-
sistent with those of previous reports. 13,14
Because these studies have a limited
impact on the summary US risk esti-
mate, the EPA report included data from
studies that had not been published at the
time of the initial assessment. 18 The
EPA report also included data from
studies that did not use a case-control
design. 19

The strengths of our study include its
large sample size and its population-
based design. In addition, we were able
to adjust for potential confounding factors
such as age, race, education, and income.
However, our study also has several limita-
tions. First, we relied on self-reported data
on ETS exposure, which may be subject to
recall bias. Second, we were unable to
assess the specific types of tobacco prod-
ucts smoked by the women’s spouses or
parents. Third, we did not have information
on other potential risk factors for lung can-
cer, such as occupational exposures and
dietary habits.

Despite these limitations, our findings
provide further evidence that exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke is associated
with an increased risk of lung cancer in
lifetime never smokers. These findings
have important implications for public health
policy. Efforts to reduce ETS exposure
may help to prevent lung cancer in nonsmok-
ers.