12/04 15:10 041 38 312 676

JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY, 1996, Vol. 271, Issue 4, pp. 2144-2149. Printed in U.S.A.

Chemoprevention of Carcinogen-DNA Adducts and Chronic Degenerative Diseases*

Alberto Izzi, Francesco D’Agostino, Maria Ragni, Leonardo Sciallioli, Alessandro Rovida,
Roumen M. Boiarski, Carmine Perricone, and Silvio De Flora
Institute of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, L. S. R., U.M., & B. F., and National Institute for Cancer Research (I.R.C.), University of Genoa, Via
Ferrara 1, 16132 Genoa, Italy

Abstract

Molecular docking techniques were employed in order to assess the
ability of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to interfere with DNA adduct formation.
The involvement of DNA alteration, not only in cancer but also in other
chronic degenerative diseases, is increasingly recognized. NAC, a well-
known antioxidant used in the same amino acid thiol, the N-acetylcystei-
nine residue, has been shown to reduce the levels of carcinogen-DNA
adducts in three experimental systems in vivo. Thus, we
examined the effects of NAC on benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide
(BPA-DE) - DNA adducts and 2-amino-1,4-naphthoquinone (ANQ)-DNA
adducts. We also tested for alloxan-induced alterations in rat
liver glutathione S-transferase activity. The formation of BPA-DE-DNA
and ANQ-DNA adducts was quantified by reversed-phase high-
performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection.
The results showed that NAC significantly reduced the levels of both
types of adducts, and also diminished alloxan-induced alterations in
glutathione S-transferase activity. The ability of NAC to reduce DNA
adduct formation may be related to its capacity to scavenge reactive
oxygen species (ROS) and to increase intracellular glutathione levels.
NAC is a relatively inexpensive drug that has been used clinically for
various purposes, including the treatment of acetaminophen overdose
and cystic fibrosis. It also appears to have beneficial effects in patients
with chronic bronchitis and other respiratory diseases. NAC has been
shown to protect against radiation-induced lung injury and to reduce
the toxicity of certain chemotherapeutic agents. In addition, it has
been reported that NAC can inhibit the formation of advanced glycation
end products (AGEs), which are implicated in several age-related
diseases. NAC is also a precursor of glutathione, an important anti-
oxidant molecule. NAC may be useful as a chemopreventive agent for
reducing the risk of cancer and other chronic degenerative diseases.

Introduction

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are generated during normal cellular
metabolism and also by exposure to environmental pollutants and
xenobiotics. ROS can damage DNA, proteins, and lipids, leading to
cellular dysfunction and disease. The formation of DNA adducts is a
major mechanism by which carcinogens and other electrophilic compounds
can induce mutations and cancer. Advanced glycation end products (AGEs)
are formed when reducing sugars react nonenzymatically with amino-
containing molecules, such as proteins and lipids. AGEs accumulate in
tissues during aging and contribute to the pathogenesis of several age-
related diseases, including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s
disease. NAC is a thiol compound that has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory
properties. It can scavenge ROS, increase intracellular glutathione levels,
and inhibit the formation of AGEs. NAC is also a precursor of gluta-
thione, which is an important antioxidant molecule. NAC has been used
clinically for various purposes, including the treatment of acetaminophen
overdose and cystic fibrosis. It also appears to have beneficial effects in
patients with chronic bronchitis and other respiratory diseases. NAC has
been shown to protect against radiation-induced lung injury and to reduce
the toxicity of certain chemotherapeutic agents. In addition, it has been
reported that NAC can inhibit the formation of AGEs. NAC is readily
(6) and alone or in combination with reduced glutathione, is employed in
an experimental model of thiol (Glutathione) for the prevention of second
primary tumors in patients previously treated for lung cancer [10].

The mechanisms responsible for the protective effects of NAC
against ROS-induced damage have been extensively investigated in our
laboratory [for recent reviews, see Refs. 1, 2]. In synthesis, in this
role, NAC acts as a substrate for glutathione conjugation.
NAC is readily converted to cysteine. It identifies direct-acting mutagens can do so by nucleophile
attack on electrophilic sites and also by scavenging free radicals
and other reactive species. The reaction of NAC with oxygen gives
concentrations formed in an acidic environment and enhance thiol
conjugation. In addition, NAC increases the intracellular concentrations
of glutathione by yield cysteine, which is the rate-limiting step into
the disposal of cellular exports of a ROS. NAC enhances the
formation of glutathione conjugates via conjugation to electrophilic
sites, such as long-lived transport cells (e.g., erythrocytes) and serving
as a substrate for glutathione S-transferase (GST). GSTs are a family
of enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of glutathione to electrophilic
compounds [11]. These enzymes play an important role in detoxification
and xenobiotic metabolism [12]. NAC has been shown to increase GST
activity in several tissues [13, 14].

In this study, we examined the effects of NAC on the formation of
BPA-DE-DNA and ANQ-DNA adducts in rat liver. We also tested for
alloxan-induced alterations in rat liver glutathione S-transferase activity.
BPA-DE is a metabolite of the potent carcinogen BPA [15]. ANQ is a
quinone that is formed during the metabolism of several drugs and
environmental pollutants [16]. Alloxan is a compound that induces
oxidative stress and damage to pancreatic beta cells [17].

Materials and Methods

Animals

Male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-250 g) were obtained from Harlan
Sprague Dawley, Inc. (Indianapolis, IN). The animals were housed in
temperature-controlled rooms with a 12-h light/dark cycle and fed a
standard laboratory diet. All experiments were conducted in accordance
with the guidelines of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee.

Chemicals

NAC was purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). BPA
and ANQ were obtained from Aldrich Chemical Co. (Milwaukee, WI).
Alloxan monohydrate was purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. Solvents
and reagents were of HPLC grade.

DNA Adduct Formation

Rats were treated with NAC (300 mg/kg body weight) by oral gavage
daily for 1 week. Control rats received saline injections. After the last
dose, the animals were killed by CO2 inhalation, and livers were removed
and frozen at -80°C until analyzed. DNA adducts were extracted from
liver tissue using a modified version of the method described previously
[18]. Briefly, 0.5 g of liver tissue was homogenized in 10 ml of buffer
containing 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 1 mM EDTA, and 0.5% Noni-
det P-40. The homogenate was centrifuged at 16,000 x g for 20 min
at 4°C. The pellet was resuspended in 10 ml of buffer containing 10 mM
Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 1 mM EDTA, and 0.5% Nonidet P-40, and incubated
with proteinase K (2 mg/ml) at 56°C for 1 h. The DNA was extracted
using phenol/chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation.

Quantification of DNA Adducts

DNA adducts were quantified by reversed-phase HPLC with electro-
chemical detection [19]. Briefly, DNA samples (10 pg) were hydrolyzed
with alkali and derivatized with 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrophenol (FDNP). The
derivatized adducts were separated on a C18 column (3.5 μm, 4.6 × 150
mm; Phenomenex, Torrance, CA) using a gradient elution system with
mobile phases A (water containing 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid) and B
(acetonitrile containing 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid). The flow rate was
1 ml/min. Detection was performed at 340 nm. Adduct concentrations
were determined by comparison to standard curves generated using syn-
thetic adduct standards.

Glutathione S-Transferase Activity

Liver glutathione S-transferase activity was measured in liver homogenates
using a spectrophotometric assay [20]. Briefly, the reaction mixture
contained 100 μl of liver homogenate, 100 μl of substrate solution (1-
chloro-2,4-