AMERICAN JOURNAL OF

Public Health reprint

® DESP
F.D.C.



PUBLIC HEALTH BRIEFS

Validation of Self-Reported Smoking Behavior:
Biochemical Analyses of Cotinine and Thiocyanate

NANCY JEAN HALEY, PhD, CAROL M. ANSELL, MD, and KATHRYN A. TITTON, BS

Abstract: Biochemical determinations of plasma and urinary
cotinine and thiocyanate were used to validate self-reported
smoking status in early childhood. Cotinine was found to be
useful for determining large scale differences between smokers and
nonsmokers but less useful for detecting small changes. Urinary
thiocyanate was a more sensitive index for detecting small
variations and for following up changes in daily smoking patterns. 1 AM.
Public Health 1983; 44:1205-1207

Introduction

Smoking control research has generally relied upon self-
report for information concerning smoking status, but the
accuracy of self-reports is questionable. This study aims to
report the extent of agreement (validity) that exists between
self-reported smoking behavior and biochemical measures
used to detect cigarette smoke exposure. The controversy how-
ever, centers on whether individuals accurately report their
cigarette smoking habits. It has been suggested that there is
little incentive for smokers to underreport their smoking
behavior, and that the tendency to overreport may be more
common. In addition, it has been noted that children are
particularly prone to misreporting their smoking behavior.
Therefore, this study was designed to validate self-reported
smoking status in early childhood using biochemical measures
of exposure to cigarette smoke.

Methods

Study Population

The study population consisted of 214 first grade children
(ages 6–8 years) attending elementary schools in Rochester,
New York. The children were recruited as part of a larger
study examining dietary habits and nutritional status. Parents
provided written informed consent for their child’s participation
in the study.

Data Collection

Parents completed a questionnaire on smoking behavior
as well as a 24-hour dietary recall.

Participants then completed a questionnaire on smoking
behavior as well as a 24-hour dietary recall.

Experiment 2

Two “smokers” and two nonsmokers were asked to
smoke one cigarette each, and their plasma was sampled.
Samples were collected directly into pretreated vials and then frozen
until analysis. All samples were analyzed in duplicate.

Analytical Techniques

Cotinine was quantitated by a modification of the radio-
immunoassay described previously (1). The assay is highly
sensitive and specific for cotinine. The detection limit of
plasma cotinine would be considered to be 20 millimoles per liter.
The intraassay coefficient of variation was less than 5%.
Approximately 80 samples plus standards and controls were
analyzed in each assay. Results are reported as means ±
standard error with confidence intervals.

Thiocyanate was quantitated by an automated enzymatic
procedure following the method described by (2). Saliva was
used for thiocyanate determination, and all samples were analyzed
in duplicate with negligible carryover.

Results

Table 1 displays the mean plasma cotinine concentrations
for smokers and nonsmokers as determined by self-report and
biochemical analysis. The mean plasma cotinine concentration
for children who reported being smokers was significantly higher
than that for those who reported being nonsmokers (p < 0.001).
The mean plasma cotinine concentration for the “smokers”
who were asked to smoke one cigarette each was 57 ± 4
millimoles per liter. The mean plasma cotinine concentration
for the nonsmokers who were not asked to smoke was 6 ± 1
millimoles per liter.

Table 2 displays the mean urinary thiocyanate concentrations
for smokers and nonsmokers as determined by self-report and
biochemical analysis. The mean urinary thiocyanate concentra-
tion for children who reported being smokers was significantly
higher than that for those who reported being nonsmokers
(p < 0.001).

Discussion

The results of this study indicate that biochemical measures
of cotinine and thiocyanate can be used to validate self-reported
smoking status in early childhood. Cotinine was found to be
useful for determining large scale differences between smokers
and nonsmokers but less useful for detecting small changes.
Urinary thiocyanate was a more sensitive index for detecting
small variations and for following up changes in daily smoking
patterns.

The findings of this study have implications for research
on smoking control. Self-reported smoking behavior should be
validated with biochemical measures whenever possible.



REFERENCES

1.  Haley, N. J., Ansell, C. M., Titton, K. A., et al. Radioimmunoassay
    for plasma cotinine in children. Clin. Chem. 29:1378–1382 (1983).
2.  Hine, R. J., and Hoare, S. J. Enzymatic determination of thiocyanate
    in urine. J. Clin. Pathol. 35:604–608 (1982).

Reprint requests to Nancy Jean Haley, PhD, Department of
Pediatrics, University of Rochester Medical Center, 696
Cobbs Street, Rochester, NY 14648.



