REGULATORY TOXICOLOGY AND PHARMACOLOGY 16, 223-244 (1992)

Environmental Tobacco Smoke

ALAN RODGMAN

2826 Birchwood Drive, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27103

Received May 9, 1992

In 1992, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a “draft” assessment of ETS and lung cancer in adult and respiratory illnesses in children. Relying on weak and inconclusive epidemiological data, the supposed link between ETS and MS, the presence of "known or suspected" carcinogens in MS, and by extrapolation in ETS, and the “biological plausibility” of an adverse relationship between ETS and health, the EPA classified MS as a group IIB carcinogen (a known human carcinogen). Fundamental physical and quantitative chemical differences among ETS, MS, and SS exposure to smoke were disregarded. The subtle areas are not equivalent nor is TTS exposure a quantitative variant of cigarette smoking. A sub-stantial difference in particle size overlays the huge distributive differences between exposures. As a result, the “dosage” of ETS retained is miniscule relative to MS. The EPA’s conclusions, by the use of tenuous relationships as bases for Group IIB classification are unwarranted because they ignore the fact that the concentrations of the “carcinogens” in the ETS components was based on questions on the presence and levels of those components in MS and data indicating a 25- to 30-fold decrease of a high-level dose of MS at MS concentrate diminished the effects observed. The EPA, in an effort to encourage regulation of smoking in the workplace overlooked the more than 100 tobacco smoke components known to inhibit the tumorigenic action of many of the “tumorigenes.” © 1992 Academic Press, Inc.

INTRODUCTION

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (1990b) issued two draft documents in which it defined ETS as a carcinogen and designated it a group IIB carcinogen (EPA, 1990b) in an effort to encourage regulation of smoking in the workplace.

The EPA relied on data from various epidemiological studies on lung cancer inci-dence in ETS-exposed nonstsmokers as an indication that ETS was causally related to lung cancer. Though these studies have been severely criticized for various reasons, including taxonomic (Lyard, 1990), EPA extrapolated SS (and MS) qualitative and quan-titative chemical also into TTS with regard for either the profound diurnal physical changes in the air or the differences in particle size and mass that occur during TTS. The EPA were largely ignored in determining the carcinogenic potential of ETS.

2047149