VOL. 341: APRIL 17, 1993

THE LANCET

EDITORIAL

Do epidemiologists cause epidemics?

Two young epidemiologists confidently announced over the radio that an epidemic of influenza would soon reach their country. Deaths attributed to influenza immediately rose, as doctors started to diagnose influenza as the terminal illness in people clearly and obviously dying. Some time later they realised that the epidemic had in fact never reached the country and that the rise in influenza death rates was matched by a deficit in deaths ascribed to pneumonia. This tale, popular among teachers of epidemiology, is difficult to verify, and may well have been embellished in the tradition of story telling. Occasionally, however, stories come true.

A provincial cancer registry issued a warning that cancer rates were increasing in an area that had been under environmental suspicion for some years.¹ The popular press responded with dramatic headlines. Real estate (property) prices fell; the inhabitants reported health problems among friends and neighbours and contemplated moving, even though individual respondents showed more resilience in their health beliefs. On review, it was found that a wrong denominator had been used, a mistake that could easily happen if the reporting of population figures did not follow the same administrative boundaries as the cancer registry.¹ In retrospect, the episode can be turned to our advantage because it provides an opportunity to learn about the “placebo” part of community’s response to a perceived danger.

It is easy to imagine how such episodes could arise. The public are easily frightened by health scares, and they tend to believe what they read in newspapers. It is therefore important that epidemiologists communicate their findings clearly and accurately. But it is also important that the media report these findings responsibly. Otherwise, there is a risk that people will panic and take unnecessary action.

The recent reports of an epidemic of “variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease” (vCJD) in Britain are a good example of this. The reports were based on a small number of cases, but they were widely publicized. As a result, many people have become worried about eating beef. This is despite the fact that the risk of contracting vCJD is very low.

The public’s reaction is unpredictable. In the Netherlands, the well-meaning advice of health authorities to remove the upper layers of cadmium-contaminated garden soil (a legacy of the industrial revolution of bygone times) in an area south of the country met with stiff popular resistance. An action committee was formed to dispute the epidemiological findings. As the inhabitants pointed out, their fathers had already lived from the fruits of these gardens, so why should the gardens be destroyed in this way?² The arguments of the commission itself did not prevail, however, and finally almost everyone complied.

One difficulty with epidemiology is its popularity with editors, both medical and in the tabloid press. Epidemiological data make such easy headlines, which everyone can understand and is entitled to have an opinion about—"coffee causes cancer," "breast professionals is off risk,” and so on. The reason why all these people see that mere common sense is not opinions about the results of the latest DNA-gimmicks, so why do they think they are entitled to epidemiology? Still, such easy fame makes with 1000s epidemiologists. It is not merely to do personal ambition or desire for more funding; it is a genuine wish to improve the health.

More than a wish to improve the public’s health, there is a palpable desire among epidemiologists publishing “people-friendly” articles in newspapers and journals. The effect of work of this kind is often quite remarkable. For example, after an article appeared in The Guardian about the link between alcohol consumption and breast cancer, sales of gin plummeted.

The problem with epidemiology is that it is so easily misunderstood. People tend to take epidemiological findings as gospel, even though they are often based on flawed data or biased interpretations. It is therefore important that epidemiologists communicate their findings clearly and accurately, and that the media report these findings responsibly. Otherwise, there is a risk that people will panic and take unnecessary action.

¹ J.A. Smith et al., Lancet, ii, 1357 (1982).
² A. van Wijngaarden, personal communication.