252 Epidemiology
IOS Press, 1994

IMPORTANCE AND INTERACTION OF GENETIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS IN DEVELOPMENT OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS

J. Shepherd
Department of Pathological Biochemistry, Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, UK

Summary Statement:

Six hundred and eighty-two aged students between 18 and 26 years (Mean 22.6±SD 2.1), whose fa-
thers had proven coronary heart disease (CHD) before the age of 55 years (cases), and 1312 age and
sex matched controls were recruited from centres in Europe.
The recruitment centres were grouped on the basis of CHD mortality rates, geographic location and
language area: Northern Europe (Oslo, Tromsø, Reykjavik, Aberdeen, Glasgow, Belfast), Western Eu-
rope (Gothenburg, Aarhus and Hamburg), Middle (Innsbruck, Zurich) and Southern Europe
(Naples, Bordeaux, Barcelona and Rome).
Male offspring of men with premature CHD made cases were significantly different from male
controls in that they were not as tall, had a higher body mass index and a greater waist:hip
ratio. Male and female cases were not different from controls with respect to their weight and systolic
blood pressure. Female cases but not male cases, had higher systolic blood pressure measurements
male case controls.
Male cases had significantly higher plasma cholesterol, triglyceride, apolipoprotein B, lipopro-
tein A-I and fibrinogen concentrations than controls. These differences were not seen in female
cases and female controls.
Both male and female cases had higher plasma HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) levels and lower
cholesterol than their respective controls.
Male cases had a significantly higher apolipoprotein A-IV with smaller total fasting plasma
lipoproteins, whereas female cases had an apparently lower apolipoprotein A-IV.
The genetic contribution to the differences in lipid and lipoprotein concentrations between
cases and controls was estimated by digital phenotyping. The results suggest that there is a
significant genetic effect on HDL-C levels in both male and female offspring of men with pre-
mature CHD. There were significant regional differences in triglyceride concentrations, suggesting
that environmental factors also play an important role.
The findings indicate that the development of premature coronary heart disease is influenced
by both genetic and environmental factors. The relative importance of these factors may vary
between males and females and between different regions of Europe.

Key words:
Apolipoproteins; Atheros-
clerosis; diet; en-
zymes; phenotype; triglyc-

1. Introduction, origin

Coronary heart disease
rope, is unevenly distri-
bution has been shown to
incidence. These trends
seem to be of crucial im-

since genetic predisposi-
tion varies between popu-
lations and that environ-
mental factors can modify
genetic effects. The Euro-
pean Community Heart
Survey (ECHHS) pro-
vided a unique oppor-
tunity to investigate the
relative contributions of
genetic and environmental
factors to the development
of premature CHD in Eu-
rope.

2. Materials and Methods

2.1 Recruitment centres

Six hundred and eighty-two aged students between 18 and 26 years (Mean 22.6±SD 2.1), whose fa-
thers had proven coronary heart disease (CHD) before the age of 55 years (cases), and 1312 age and
sex matched controls were recruited from centres in Europe. The recruitment centres were grouped on
the basis of CHD mortality rates, geographic location and language area: Northern Europe (Oslo, Trom-
sø, Reykjavik, Aberdeen, Glasgow, Belfast), Western Europe (Gothenburg, Aarhus and Hamburg), Mid-
dle (Innsbruck, Zurich) and Southern Europe (Naples, Bordeaux, Barcelona and Rome). The study
was approved by the ethics committees of each centre.

2.2 Data collection

Data were collected using a standardised questionnaire. Information was obtained on age, sex, height,
weight, systolic blood pressure, smoking habits, physical activity and dietary history. Blood samples
were collected from all subjects after an overnight fast. Plasma lipids and lipoproteins were measured
on the same day or stored at -20°C until analysis.

2.3 Biochemical measurements

Plasma cholesterol was determined by enzymatic method (Kit AZ-43; Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis,
MO, USA). Plasma triglyceride was measured by a modified version of the Falk and Nelson method
(Biolab Systems, Milano, Italy). HDL-C was determined by precipitation with phosphotungstic acid
(adapted from Burstein et al.). Apolipoproteins A-I and B were measured by immuno-nephelometry
(Pharmacia Diagnostics, Uppsala, Sweden). Apolipoprotein A-IV was measured by ELISA (Ani-
motive, West Drayton, UK). Fibrinogen was determined by a modified Clauss method. All assays were
performed at the Royal Infirmary, Glasgow.

2.4 Statistical analysis

Data were analysed using SPSS statistical software package. Differences between cases and controls were
assessed by t-tests for continuous variables and chi-squared tests for categorical variables. Regression
analysis was used to assess the relative contributions of genetic and environmental factors to the differ-
ences in lipid and lipoprotein concentrations between cases and controls.

3. Results

3.1 Baseline characteristics

The baseline characteristics of the cases and controls are shown in Table 1. Male offspring of men with
premature CHD made cases were significantly different from male controls in that they were not as tall, had
a higher body mass index and a greater waist:hip ratio. Male and female cases were not different from
controls with respect to their weight and systolic blood pressure. Female cases but not male cases, had
higher systolic blood pressure measurements than male case controls.

3.2 Lipid and lipoprotein concentrations

Male cases had significantly higher plasma cholesterol, triglyceride, apolipoprotein B, lipopro-
tein A-I and fibrinogen concentrations than controls. These differences were not seen in female
cases and female controls. Both male and female cases had higher plasma HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) levels
and lower LDL cholesterol than their respective controls.

3.3 Apolipoprotein A-IV

Male cases had a significantly higher apolipoprotein A-IV with smaller total fasting plasma
lipoproteins, whereas female cases had an apparently lower apolipoprotein A-IV.

4. Discussion

The findings of this study indicate that the development of premature coronary heart disease is influenced
by both genetic and environmental factors. The relative importance of these factors may vary between
males and females and between different regions of Europe.