CIGARETTE SMOKING AND CORONARY DISEASE

Graham A. Colditz

Channing Laboratory
Department of Medicine
Harvard Medical School and
Brigham and Women’s Hospital
Boston, MA

As many speakers have reviewed during this conference, the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease, which includes the clinical manifestations of myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, and sudden death, is extremely complex and mediated by multiple mechanisms and etiologic factors (1). At least five interrelated processes are likely to contribute to the clinical manifestations of myocardial infarction: atherosclerosis, thrombosis, coronary artery spasm, cardiac arrhythmia, and reduced capacity of the blood to deliver oxygen.

The effects of smoking on coronary heart disease are probably mediated by multiple mechanisms, several of which are well established. Where some of these effects of smoking appear to be reversible within days or weeks, others may be irreversible or only slowly reversible, such as the development of atherosclerosis due to smooth muscle proliferation and lipid deposition in the arterial intima. However, the relative contribution of these mechanisms to the increased incidence of cardiovascular disease caused by smoking is unknown.

After an exhaustive review of the data, the 1983 Report of the Surgeon General, which was devoted to cardiovascular disease, concluded that “cigarette smoking is a major cause of coronary heart diseases in the United States for both men and women” and that cigarette smoking should be considered the most important of the known modifiable risk factors for CHD (2). Overall, smokers had about a 70% excess death rate from CHD; heavier smokers had an even greater excess risk. Additional evidence accumulated since the 1983 Report of the Surgeon General was presented in the 1989 Report of the Surgeon General (3). For the year 1985, cigarette smoking was estimated to be responsible for 21% of all deaths among U.S. men aged 35 years or older and 11% of all CHD deaths among the younger men. For women, 12% of the CHD deaths among those aged 65 or more were attributable to cigarette smoking; this is comparable to cigarette smoke and 41% of those in younger women.

Eleven million people die each year worldwide from diseases and conditions that are directly related to tobacco use (4). In the United States, cigarette smoking accounts for approximately 100,000 deaths annually (2).

