Letters

To Specialists Screen for Breast Cancer?

To the Editor—We were very interested in the JAMA Medi-
cal News & Perspectives” article on mammography and the
comments of Nancy Perrin, PhD. She states that “one of the
problems is that the women who need screening most—older
women are at higher risk for breast cancer—often are using
a generalist or primary care physician as their main
disease as their source of primary care. But those physicians
do not think of themselves as primary care doctors, so they
do not recommend or order a mammogram this year.” However, the article cited by Green and Kessler¹
provides no supporting data for this view.

One of us (S.S.) is a thyroidologist who had not previously
ordered patients with mammograms. In an initial study, we
compared the mammography results obtained during a 6-month
period of 15 patients with thyroid disease in the subse-
quent 6 months of patients without thyroid disease. The mean
age of the patients from general internists’s practices (19.1)
years was similar to that of patients from the control group
(P<.001). We were concerned when three new breast cancers
were discovered among the patients who had specialists
(endocrinologists), whereas no new breast cancers were
found in a population from general internists this was
because of a selection bias. In retrospect, the mean time be-
cause of the patients. Only 18% of the patients in the
general internist population had not previous mammograms
compared with 56% of the specialists’s patients (P<.001).

We believe that specialists are more likely to order mammo-
grams for women who have never had them, and this may
explain why they find more breast cancers. The article by
Green and Kessler² does not provide sufficient evidence to
support their conclusion that specialists do not recommend
mammograms.

Sincerely,

Steven B. Stoffer, MD
Department of Medicine
Scripps Clinic
La Jolla, CA 92037

1. Green, R., Kessler, L. Changes in the use of screening mammography: evidence
from the 1987 and 1990 National Health Interview Survey. Ann Intern Med.
1994;120:626-630.

In Reply.—National data support the conclusions of Drs Stoffer
and Shapiro that specialists treating older women need to be
more aggressive in ensuring their patients are adequately
screened for breast cancer since older women are at greatest
risk of developing this disease and may not be screened. A
correlation that specialists do not recommend many
mammograms can be found in the National Ambulatory Medi-
cal Care Survey (NAMCS) data, which shows, in 1991 for ex-
ample, mammograms were ordered by 18 physician
specialties. Eighty-seven percent of all mammograms were
recommended by primary care (17%) and obstetric/gyne-
cology (40%). Patients seen by specialists had few mammo-
grams ordered. The reason that specialists may have had the
number of patients seen by specialists who underwent mam-
mography would be higher than is apparent from these data.

Viewing these NAMCS data another way, mammograms are
more at the services ordered or provided by physicians in all
specialties (including primary care). While primary care phys-
cians entered 1991 than did specialists, most (ex-gen-
eralist) and family practitioners, who accounted for 35% of
the saw specialists in the percentage of mammograms
ordered.

We agree that selection bias may have influenced Stoffer
and Shapiro’s study. We also agree that older women are at
greater risk of breast cancer than younger women. The point
of our article was to emphasize that generalist physicians
should be more aggressive in screening their patients for
breast cancer, especially those who are older.

Sincerely,

Nancy Perrin, PhD
Department of Social Medicine
Harvard Medical School
Boston, MA 02115

Robert D. Green, MD
Department of Community Health Sciences
University of California, San Francisco
San Francisco, CA 94140



