FEB 07 '95 12:26PM PHILIPMORRIS

To C. Ellis
W. Brownlee, PH
R. Canchrin

P. 4/8

How do Smokers Differ From Nonsmokers
in Their Response to Thrombolysis?
(The TIMI-4 Trial)

Daron Zager, MD, Bojan Cercek, MD, Christopher P. Cannon, MD,
Matthew Jordan, MS, Vicki Davis, DrPH, Eugene Braunwald, MD,
and Prediman K. Shah, MD, for the TIMI-4 Investigators

Smokers with acute myocardial infarction appear to do
have a better outcome after thrombolysis than do non-
smokers. To identify factors that could contribute to this
curious finding, we analyzed data from the Thrombol-
ysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI-4) trial, in which 382
patients with acute myocardial infarction were ran-
domized to tissue plasminogen activator, anistreplase,
or both. Coronary angiography was performed 90 min-
utes and 18 ± 6 hours after randomization; a myo-
cardial perfusion scan was performed at 18 ± 6 hours
and before discharge, and a radionuclide ventriculo-
gram was obtained before discharge. Angiographic
and clinical outcome variables were determined in cur-
rent smokers, ex-smokers, and nonsmokers, and re-
gression analysis was used to correct for differences in
baseline characteristics. The in-hospital mortality of cur-
rent smokers was lower than that of ex-smokers and

[Am J Cardiol 1995;75:232-286]

gare smoking is associated with increased moro-
tality and morbidity and mortality1,2 which is mediated
by multiple deleterious effects of smoking on arteries3-6
correct, thrombosis, vasospasm, and arrhythmogensis7-13.
Paradoxically, smoking is associated with better outcome
in patients who undergo acute myocardial infarction
with thrombolysis.14 This curious finding has led us to
hypothesize that smokers may have a different type of
thrombus than do nonsmokers, and that this difference
may contribute to the improved outcome after throm-
bolysis. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed data from
the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI-4) trial,
in which patients with acute myocardial infarction were
randomized to tissue plasminogen activator, anistrepla-
se, or both.

Methods

Study Population

The TIMI-4 trial was conducted at 32 sites in the
United States and Canada. Patients aged >38 years
with chest pain suggestive of acute myocardial infarc-
tion were entered if they had ST-segment elevation on a
12-lead electrocardiogram or new bundle branch block,
and who presented within 4 hours of onset of symptoms.
Patients were excluded if they had received prior coro-
nary artery bypass grafting, had a history of carcioid
pulmonary edema, or had a contraindication to throm-
bolysis. Patients were randomized in a double-blind
manner to receive tissue plasminogen activator (tPA)
(100 mg intravenous bolus followed by 90 mg over 1
hour), anistreplase (10 U intravenous bolus), or both.

Three hundred eighty-two patients were enrolled, and
286 patients completed the study. The protocol was ap-
proved by each participating institution’s ethics com-
mittee, and informed consent was obtained from all pa-
tients.

Data Collection

Baseline data, including smoking history, were col-
lected at the time of enrollment. Smoking status was de-
fined as current smoker (patient currently smokes), ex-
smoker (patient has quit smoking), or nonsmoker (pa-
tient has never smoked). The primary end point was
mortality during hospitalization. Secondary end points
included in-hospital mortality, reinfarction, and the oc-
currence of TIMI grade 3 flow at 90 minutes.

Statistical Analysis

Data are presented as mean ± SD or as percentages.
Differences in baseline characteristics among current
smokers, ex-smokers, and nonsmokers were assessed
by t test or chi2 analysis. In-hospital mortality was com-
pared by Mantel-Haenszel chi2 analysis, stratified for
age (38 to 54 years and >54 years) and initial ECG
findings (ST-segment elevation myocardial infarc-
tion [STEMI] and non-ST-segment elevation myocar-
dial infarction [NSTEMI]). The incidence of TIMI grade
3 flow at 90 minutes was compared by Mantel-Haenszel
chi2 analysis, stratified for age and initial ECG findings.
A p value < 0.05 was considered significant.

Results

Baseline Characteristics

The baseline characteristics of the patients are shown in
Table 1. Current smokers (n = 89) were younger than ex-
smokers (n = 164) and nonsmokers (n = 129) (p < 0.05).
There were no significant differences among the three
groups with respect to initial ECG findings or time to
treatment.

Outcomes

The in-hospital mortality rate was lower in current smok-
ers (2.8%) versus ex-smokers (5.2%) and nonsmokers
(7.0%), respectively (p = 0.04 by paired comparison, cur-
rent vs non-smokers). Ninety minutes after randomization, the inci-
dence of TIMI grade 3 flow was significantly higher in
smokers than in ex-smokers and nonsmokers (55% vs
43% and 45%, p = 0.02); this difference was no longer
observed at the second angiography, nor did smokers
differ from ex-smokers with respect to residual throm-
bus burden because infarct size, ejection fraction, or
recurrent ischemia. Because a strong inverse relation
exists between TIMI grade 3 flow and mortality, our
findings suggest that the lower overall mortalitiy
of current smokers after thrombolytic therapy may
be related to a higher incidence of early, complete
reperfusion.

[Am J Cardiol 1995;75:232-286]

382 patients with evolving AMI. An open-label phases
were the combination was first conducted in 34 patients
during our inclusion in this analysis. The study was con-
ducted in 18 participating centers (see Appendix).

Patients were eligible for entry if they were >38 years
of age, had chest pain suggestive of AMI, and had ST-
segment elevation or a new left bundle branch block on
a 12-lead ECG. Patients were excluded if they had pre-
vious coronary artery bypass grafting, cardiogenic shock,
or a contraindication to thrombolysis. Informed consent
was obtained from all patients.

Patients were randomized in a double-blind manner to
receive tPA (tissue plasminogen activator) 100 mg IV
bolus followed by 90 mg over 1 hour), anistreplase
(10 U IV bolus), or both. The primary end point was
mortality during hospitalization. Secondary end points in-
cluded reinfarction, TIMI grade 3 flow at 90 minutes,
and mortality at 30 days.

Baseline data, including smoking history, were col-
lected at the time of enrollment. Smoking status was de-
fined as current smoker (patient currently smokes), ex-
smoker (patient has quit smoking), or nonsmoker (pa-
tient has never smoked). The in-hospital mortality rate
was compared by Mantel-Haenszel chi2 analysis, strat-
ified for age and initial ECG findings. The incidence of
TIMI grade 3 flow at 90 minutes was compared by Man-
tel-Haenszel chi2 analysis, stratified for age and ini-
tial ECG findings. A p value < 0.05 was considered
significant.

Baseline Characteristics

The baseline characteristics of the patients are shown in
Table 1. Current smokers (n = 89) were younger than ex-
smokers (n = 164) and nonsmokers (n = 129) (p < 0.05).
There were no significant differences among the three
groups with respect to initial ECG findings or time to
treatment.

Outcomes

The in-hospital mortality rate was lower in current smok-
ers (2.8%) versus ex-smokers (5.2%) and nonsmokers
(7.0%), respectively (p = 0.04 by paired comparison, cur-
rent vs non-smokers). Ninety minutes after randomization, the inci-
dence of TIMI grade 3 flow was significantly higher in
smokers than in ex-smokers and nonsmokers (