3

Assessing Exposures to Environmental
Tobacco Smoke

Howard D. Goodfellow, Ph.D.,
with S. Eyre, M.I.Sc., and
J.A.S. Wyatt, P.Eng.
Goodfellow Consultans Inc.

1. Introduction

Accurate assessments of exposure are fundamental to any credible epidemio-
logical study of the health effects of environmental tobacco smoke
(“ETS”). Measuring exposure is a complicated task, made difficult by
the complex nature of ETS itself. As the previous panel has discussed, ETS is
not a single substance; rather, it is a diverse and dynamic mixture consisting
of several thousand constituents. Some of these constituents may serve as
surrogates for the ETS mixture as a whole or for potentially significant por-
tions of the mixture. However, accurate detection of even these surrogates is
often difficult because many are present in very low concentrations.
Furthermore, because materials and furnishings, cooking and heating
sources, such as building materials and furnishings, cooking and heating
fuels, aerosol propellants and cleaning compounds. Thus, there are substan-
tial problems in attempting to trace the existence of these substances back to
ETS. The physical and chemical complexity of ETS is compounded by its
propensity to change over time. Such changes can occur as a result of reactions
among constituents or between them and constituents and
other surfaces or chemical sources. This dynamic quality further complicates
the measurement of ETS.

Given these difficulties, it is not surprising that there is no universally
accepted and standardized method for assessing the exposure of an individual
to ETS. A large number of studies have based estimates of exposure on ret-
rospective data obtained from questionnaires. But problems of recall bias
associated with these methods have led investigators to seek more objective
and a more objective method for measuring exposure. The first is to measure lev-
els of ETS constituents in exhaled breath or saliva (i.e., biological monitoring).
The second is to measure levels of ETS constituents in samples of air collected

265141083