Atmospheric Environment Vol. 26 No. 5 pp 281-290, 1992
Printed in Great Britain

0960-165X/92 $3.00 + 0.00
© 1992 Pergamon Press Ltd

PERCEPTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE ODORS: AN OLFACTORY AND VISUAL RESPONSE

D. J. MOSCHANDREAS
Illinois Institute of Technology, Armour College of Engineering, Fritzkiir Center of Environmental
Engineering, Chicago, IL 60616, U.S.A.
and

S. M. RELWANI
Hartley Lawton Associates

(First received 10 November 1991 and in final form 2 March 1992)

ABSTRACT—Odor perception of approximately 200 subjects was measured to determine whether visual context influences an odor source affects sensory responses and to estimate the magnitude of such an effect. Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) odors were generated by a smoking machine under controlled conditions by an investigator who smoked. Several levels of odor intensity were generated. Odor intensity, odor hedonics and odor familiarity were recorded before and after exposure to visual context. The results indicated that odor intensity increased as the perceived odor intensity had hedonistic nature of the odor changed directionally toward unpleasantness and the number of subjects reporting ETS odors increased. Exposure to visual contact led to differences that were statistically significant.

Key word index: Odor pollution, tobacco smoke.

1. INTRODUCTION

In a recent study, the authors of this paper tested the following hypothesis: there is no difference in the number of tobacco-odor complaints between days when smokers are present and days when they are not. In a restaurant, an opaque panel was used to block visual contact between smoking and non-smoking sections of the establishment; no significant differences were found in the number of complaints during a 4-hour period. The study has all implications for understanding how visual context influences odor perception. A previous ETS nuisance complaint study led to a regulation that banned smoking in public places. The aim of this paper is to investigate the effects of visual context on odor perception under controlled conditions.

2. EXPERIMENTAL

Two hundred subjects from the campus of the IIT Re-search Institute and the Illinois Institute of Technology participated in the study. All were non-smokers, and all smoking individual’s affected odor perception parameters. These subjects were selected randomly to participate; their perception of all odors did not mean was measured. Odor intensity, odor hedonics, and odor familiarity were recorded before and after visual contact with a cigarette source. To determine the effect of visual context on odor perception, we wanted the subject's perception of the above odor parameters to be influenced by visual context. The subjects were exposed to an odor-generating chamber that was isolated from all external stimuli. The odor-generating chamber was 2 m x 2 m x 2 m in size. Airflow into the chamber was 2000 liters/min, and the air temperature was maintained at 23°C ± 1°C. A smoking machine (Model SM-60, Arthur D. Little, Inc.) was used to generate tobacco smoke under controlled conditions. The cigarette brand was Marlboro. The number of cigarettes smoked per hour was varied to produce different odor intensities.

3. RESULTS

The results of this study are presented in Tables 1–3. Table 1 shows the mean values and standard deviations for odor intensity, odor hedonics, and odor familiarity before and after visual contact with a cigarette source. The data indicate that odor intensity increased as the perceived odor intensity had hedonistic nature of the odor changed directionally toward unpleasantness and the number of subjects reporting ETS odors increased. Exposure to visual contact led to differences that were statistically significant (p < 0.05).

Table 1. Mean Values and Standard Deviations for Odor Intensity, Odor Hedonics, and Odor Familiarity Before and After Visual Contact with a Cigarette Source

[TABLE]

4. DISCUSSION

The results of this study indicate that visual context influences odor perception. The increase in odor intensity and the change in hedonics toward unpleasantness suggest that visual cues can enhance the perceived intensity and unpleasantness of odors. This finding is consistent with previous research on the multisensory integration of olfactory and visual information [1, 2].

5. REFERENCES

[REFERENCES]

Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the odor-generating chamber.

[DIAGRAM]

Figure 2. Mean values and standard deviations for odor intensity before and after visual contact with a cigarette source. Vertical bars represent standard errors.

[DIAGRAM]

Figure 3. Mean values and standard deviations for odor hedonics before and after visual contact with a cigarette source. Vertical bars represent standard errors.

[DIAGRAM]

Figure 4. Mean values and standard deviations for odor familiarity before and after visual contact with a cigarette source. Vertical bars represent standard errors.

[DIAGRAM]



1992 TTP/378/378-5