Carcinogenesis vol.16 no.3 pp.137–142 WRE. 1995
95 0166

DNA adducts and personal monitoring of carcinogenic
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in an environmentally exposed
population

D.Binková, J.Levitas', LMišková, J.Laníček' and
R.Šrám

Laboratory of Genetic Toxicology, Institute of Environmental Medicine of
the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and Regional Institute of
Hygiene, Hradec Králové, 162 20 Prague 6, Czech Republic, Health Risk Research Laboratory, US Environmental
Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH 45998, 'Institute of Hygiene, Teplice, Czech Republic and "Regional Institute of
Hygiene, Ústí nad Labem, Czech Republic

*To whom correspondence should be addressed

The effect of personal exposure to air pollution on DNA
adducts in humans was investigated in a group of 30
of women working outdoors up to 5 days/week as postal
workers or gardeners in the city of Teplice (Northern
Bohemia), where winter inversion conditions result
in high levels of air pollution from coal combustion. Ten
of these women were followed up during the next winter
season by repeated personal monitoring and analysis
of the DNA adducts in their white blood cells in
four sampling periods. Personal exposure monitoring for
respirable particles (<2.5 μm) was conducted for 24 h
period prior collection of blood and urine. Particulate
extracts were analyzed for polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons (PAH) by high-performance liquid
chromatography with fluorescence detection. DNA adducts
were analysed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
(ELISA). The levels of PAH in air samples correlated
significantly with the levels of PAH adducts to guanine
in DNA (r = 0.69, P < 0.01). The mean level of DNA
adducts was 2.8 pmol/mg DNA. There was a significant
difference between the levels of DNA adducts in smokers
(3.7 ± 1.4 pmol/mg DNA) and non-smokers (1.9 ± 0.6
pmol/mg DNA, P < 0.05). The results suggest that
personal exposure to PAH can be estimated by measuring
DNA adducts in human tissues.

Introduction
Several classes of carcinogenic agents are known to be present
in ambient air in urban areas (1). The most extensively studied
are polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) (2), the PAH
that have been classified as potential human
carcinogens (3) are present in the air predominantly in partic-
ulate form, with a respirable particle fraction (<2.5 μm) (4, 5).
The main sources of PAH are power plants, industrial and
residential heating, motor vehicle exhaust, tobacco smoking
and wood burning. These compounds are primarily activated
through an oxidative metabolic pathway to electrophilic inter-
mediates capable of reacting with cellular DNA to form
DNA adducts. These adducts, if they are not repaired or are
misrepaired, may initiate mutations and lead to adverse
health effects in humans (5, 6). Therefore, measurement
of DNA adducts may be useful for evaluation of the biologically
effective dose of PAH and for assessment of risk
from exposure to PAH (7–9). Detection of DNA adducts
provide not only client devices, but also humans been
exposed to specific chemicals that has potentially pre-
maturely elevated higher risks. The individuals with
measurable DNA adduct levels can be considered as a result
of carcinogenic lesions have been formed. The individuals
are at essentially high risk of cancer.

Materials and Methods
Study population
The study population consisted of 30 women working outdoors
up to 5 days/week as postal workers or gardeners in the city
of Teplice (Northern Bohemia). The city is located in a basin
and experiences frequent winter inversion conditions that result
in high levels of air pollution from coal combustion. Ten of
these women were followed up during the next winter season
by repeated personal monitoring and analysis of DNA adducts
in their white blood cells. All participants gave written informed
consent to participate in the study, which was approved by
the Ethical Committee of the Institute of Environmental
Medicine of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic.

Exposure assessment
Personal exposure monitoring for respirable particles (<2.5 μm)
was conducted for 24 h period prior collection of blood and
urine samples. Air samples were collected using IOM samplers
with a flow rate of 2.5 l/min. Particulate extracts were analyzed
for PAH by high-performance liquid chromatography with fluo-
rescence detection (HPLC–FLD) as described previously (10).

DNA adduct analysis
Blood samples were collected from each participant into EDTA-
containing tubes. DNA was extracted from white blood cells
using a standard protocol. DNA adducts were analysed by
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) as described
previously (11). The ELISA method was used to measure the
levels of PAH adducts to guanine in DNA.

Statistical analysis
The levels of PAH in air samples and DNA adducts were logi-
narmly transformed before statistical analysis. Correlations
between exposure concentrations and DNA adduct levels were
examined using Pearson’s correlation coefficient. Differences
in DNA adduct levels between smokers and non-smokers were
analysed by Student’s t-test. A P value of <0.05 was considered
statistically significant.

Results
Air pollution and DNA adduct levels
The mean level of PAH in air samples collected during the study
period was 12.8 ng/m3 (range 4.2–29.6 ng/m3). The levels
of PAH in air samples correlated significantly with the levels
of PAH adducts to guanine in DNA (r = 0.69, P < 0.01)
(Figure 1). The mean level of DNA adducts was 2.8 pmol/mg
DNA (range 0.8–5.4 pmol/mg DNA).

Smoking and DNA adduct levels
There was a significant difference between the levels of DNA
adducts in smokers (3.7 ± 1.4 pmol/mg DNA) and non-smokers
(1.9 ± 0.6 pmol/mg DNA, P < 0.05) (Figure 2).

Discussion
The results of this study demonstrate that personal exposure to
PAH can be estimated by measuring DNA adducts in human
tissues. The correlation between air pollution and DNA adduct
levels suggests that environmental exposure is an important
factor influencing the levels of DNA damage in humans. The
higher levels of DNA adducts observed in smokers indicate
that tobacco smoking also contributes significantly to DNA
damage.

The ELISA method used in this study has been shown to be a
sensitive and specific method for measuring PAH adducts to
guanine in DNA (11). However, the ELISA method does not
distinguish between different types of PAH adducts. Further-
more, the ELISA method may be subject to interference from
other compounds present in DNA extracts.

The results of this study are consistent with previous findings
that exposure to air pollution is associated with increased levels
of DNA damage in humans (7–9). The study provides further
evidence that personal monitoring of DNA adducts can be a
useful tool for assessing the biological effects of environmental
exposure to carcinogenic chemicals.

Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Mrs. J. Nováková and
Mrs. D. Svobodová for their technical assistance. This work
was supported by grants from the Czech Ministry of Health
(No. 103/94) and the US Environmental Protection Agency
(Interagency Agreement No. DW89C62701).

References
1. IARC, 1992. Air pollution and particulate matter in outdoor air.
IARC Monographs on the Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans,
Vol. 53. Lyon, France: International Agency for Research on Cancer.
2. US EPA, 1994. Special study update: polycyclic aromatic hydro-
carbons (PAHs). US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC.
3. IARC, 1983. Tentative list of human carcinogens. IARC Monographs
on the Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans, Vol. 6. Lyon,
France: International Agency for Research on Cancer.
4. Harrison, R.M., Mumford, C.J., Bates, P.E., and Davies, D.R., 1987.
The size distribution of airborne particulate matter in urban areas.
Atmos. Environ. 21, 535–546.
5. Silva, M.C., Butterworth, M., and Zeiger, E., 1996. DNA adducts
as biomarkers of exposure to carcinogenic chemicals. In: Biomarkers
and Exposure Assessment (ed. L.L. Foster). New York: Raven Press.
6. Barnes, D.J., and Ford, J.P., 