INTRODUCTION TO COGNITIVE ECONOMICS

Figure 1. A Simple Supply and Demand Diagram for a Unique Good (Say,
a Work of Art) in a World Without Transaction Costs or Information
Asymmetry.

(a) The supply curve slopes upward because as the price rises, artists are
willing to produce more. (b) The demand curve slopes downward because
as the price rises, consumers want less. (c) The intersection of the
supply and demand curves determines the equilibrium price and quantity.

Figure 2. A More Realistic Supply and Demand Diagram for a Unique Good.
Here, we assume that there are transaction costs and information asymmetry.
The supply curve is steeper because suppliers have to spend more time and
money marketing their goods. The demand curve is flatter because consumers
are less aware of the prices charged by different suppliers.

Figure 3. A Simple Production Possibilities Frontier (PPF). Any point
on the PPF represents a combination of goods that can be produced if all
resources are used efficiently. Points inside the PPF represent inefficient
production, and points outside the PPF represent unattainable production.

Figure 4. A Cost-Benefit Analysis of Attending College. The vertical axis
represents the benefits of attending college (e.g., higher lifetime earnings,
a more fulfilling career, a broader social network). The horizontal axis
represents the costs of attending college (e.g., tuition, fees, forgone
wages). A rational person will attend college if and only if the benefits
exceed the costs.

Figure 5. An Example of Moral Hazard. Suppose that people are more likely
to engage in risky behavior when they are not fully responsible for the
consequences of their actions. For example, a person with health insurance
may be less careful about their health than a person without health insurance.

Figure 6. An Example of Adverse Selection. Suppose that people with high
medical expenses are more likely to purchase health insurance than people
with low medical expenses. This can lead to an increase in the price of
health insurance and a decrease in the number of people who purchase it.

Figure 7. A Simple Game Theory Matrix. The matrix shows the payoffs for
each player, depending on the actions that they take. A Nash equilibrium
is a set of strategies such that no player can improve their payoff by
unilaterally changing their strategy.

Figure 8. An Example of the Tragedy of the Commons. Suppose that there
is a common pasture where several farmers graze their cattle. Each farmer
has an incentive to add more cattle to the pasture, even though this will
deplete the pasture and harm all of the farmers.

Figure 9. A Simple Model of Behavioral Economics. The model shows how
people make decisions when they are not perfectly rational. People may be
influenced by emotions, biases, and heuristics.

Figure 10. An Example of Nudging. Suppose that a government wants to
encourage people to save more for retirement. It could automatically enroll
employees in a retirement savings plan, with the option to opt out. This
is an example of a nudge because it makes it easier for people to do what
the government wants them to do.

Figure 11. A Simple Model of Cognitive Biases. The model shows how people
make systematic errors in judgment. People may be overconfident, prone
to confirmation bias, or susceptible to framing effects.

Figure 12. An Example of Loss Aversion. Suppose that a person is offered
a choice between gaining $100 and losing $100. Most people will feel
the pain of losing $100 more strongly than the pleasure of gaining $100.

Figure 13. A Simple Model of Prospect Theory. The model shows how people
evaluate gains and losses relative to a reference point. People are more
sensitive to losses than to gains.

Figure 14. An Example of Mental Accounting. Suppose that a person has
$100 in their checking account and $100 in their savings account. They
might be willing to spend the $100 from their checking account on a luxury
item, but they would not be willing to spend the $100 from their savings
account on the same item.

Figure 15. A Simple Model of Social Norms. The model shows how people
are influenced by the behavior of others. People may conform to social
norms even when it is not in their best interest.

Figure 16. An Example of Reputation Effects. Suppose that a person has
a reputation for being honest and reliable. This can make it easier for
them to do business with others.

Figure 17. A Simple Model of Trust. The model shows how trust affects
economic outcomes. People are more likely to engage in transactions when
they trust each other.

Figure 18. An Example of Bounded Rationality. Suppose that a person has
limited time and cognitive resources. They may not be able to make perfectly
rational decisions.

Figure 19. A Simple Model of Heuristics. The model shows how people use
mental shortcuts to make decisions. People may rely on heuristics even when
they are inaccurate.

Figure 20. An Example of the Availability Heuristic. Suppose that a person
is asked to estimate the number of deaths caused by terrorism in the United
States. They might overestimate the number because terrorist attacks are
more memorable than other causes of death.

Figure 21. A Simple Model of Framing Effects. The model shows how the way
information is presented can affect people’s decisions. People may make
different choices depending on whether a choice is framed as a gain or a
loss.

Figure 22. An Example of Anchoring Bias. Suppose that a person is asked
to estimate the value of a house. They might be influenced by the initial
price that they are told, even if that price is irrelevant.

Figure 23. A Simple Model of Confirmation Bias. The model shows how people
tend to seek out information that confirms their existing beliefs. People
may ignore or downplay information that contradicts their beliefs.

Figure 24. An Example of Overconfidence Bias. Suppose that a person is
asked to estimate how long it will take them to complete a task. They
might underestimate the time required because they are overconfident in their
abilities.

Figure 25. A Simple Model of Status Quo Bias. The model shows how people
tend to stick with the current state of affairs, even when there may be
better alternatives available. People may be reluctant to change because
of inertia or fear of regret.

Figure 26. An Example of Present Bias. Suppose that a person is offered
a choice between receiving $100 today and receiving $110 tomorrow. They
might choose the $100 today, even though they would prefer the $110
tomorrow if they were thinking about the future.

Figure 27. A Simple Model of Self-Control Problems. The model shows how
people may make decisions that are not in their best interest because
they lack self-control. People may procrastinate, overeat, or spend too
much money.

Figure 28. An Example of Time Inconsistency. Suppose that a person plans
to go to the gym tomorrow morning. However, when tomorrow arrives, they
might decide to sleep in instead. This is an example of time inconsistency
because their preferences change over time.

Figure 29. A Simple Model of Social Preferences. The model shows how
people are motivated by factors other than self-interest. People may care
about fairness, reciprocity, and altruism.

Figure 30. An Example of Fairness Concerns. Suppose that two people are
splitting a pie. If one person gets a much larger piece than the other,
the second person might feel resentful and try to take back some of the
pie.

Figure 31. A Simple Model of Reciprocity. The model shows how people tend
to respond to kindness with kindness and to unkindness with unkindness.
People may be willing to cooperate even when it is not in their best
interest, if they believe that others will reciprocate.

Figure 32. An Example of Altruism. Suppose that a person donates money
to charity. This is an example of altruism because the person is acting
out of concern for others.

Figure 33. A Simple Model of Group Identity. The model shows how people
tend to favor members of their own group over members of other groups.
People may be willing to cooperate with members of their own group even
when it is not in their best interest.

Figure 34. An Example of In-Group Bias. Suppose that a person is more
likely to hire someone from their alma mater than someone from another
school, even if the other candidate is more qualified.

Figure 35. A Simple Model of Cultural Norms. The model shows how cultural
norms can influence economic behavior. People may conform to cultural norms
even when it is not in their best interest.

Figure 36. An Example of a Cultural Tradition. Suppose that people in
a certain culture have a tradition of giving gifts on Christmas. People
may feel obligated to give gifts even if they cannot afford them.

Figure 37. A Simple Model of Institutions. The model shows how institutions
can shape economic outcomes. Institutions can provide incentives for
people to behave in certain ways.