NITROSAMINES

The chemistry of nitrosation of amines in foods is a com-
plex process in which oxides of nitrogen (N₂O₃, N₂O₄, and
NO) are +4) formed during food processing, preserv-
ation, and preparation can react with amino compounds
and other nucleophiles to produce N-nitroso compounds.
The two major sources of oxides of nitrogen
(nitrosating agents) result from (1) the addition of nitrite
to foods in curing processes and (2) the formation of
foods in combustion gases in which molecular nitrogen
can be oxidized to oxides of nitrogen. The only common
feature of all N-nitroso compounds is the presence of the
N=N-O functional group. Consequently, a wide range
of chemical and physical properties exist for N-nitroso
compounds, depending on the substitution on the amino/
amide nitrogen.

The occurrence of N-nitroso compounds in foodstuffs
probably represents the most widespread human exposure
exposure situation for any class of genotoxic carcinogenic
compounds in the human diet due to the possible link
between various humans and exposure to N-nitro-
so compounds (1). Almost 80% of all N-nitroso com-
pounds tested in this manner in experimental animals, and
some representative compounds of this class induce tumors
in at least 40 different animal species including higher
primates (2). Human involvement with respect to N-nitro-
so compound exposure is indicated by abnormal levels
of metabolites that are characteristic of N-nitroso com-
pounds under urine or fecal conditions suggesting
human exposure to N-nitroso compounds via ingestion.

N₂O₃ + H₂O → HNO₂ + HONO. Neither nitrite or
nitrous acid per se are nitrosating agents, but are inter-
mediates in the formation of the nitrosating agents dini-
trogen trioxide (N₂O₃), dinitrogen tetroxide (N₂O₄) and
the nitrous acidium ion (HNO₂). As shown in Figure 1.
The acidity of the aqueous medium determines the rela-
tive proportions of the nitrosating species. Under moder-
ately acidic conditions (pH 2–5) all three nitrosating spe-
cies are present. At moderate pH (ca 3.0), N₂O₃ is the
predominant nitrosating agent active in the nitrosation of
secondary amines. At low pH (<2.0), HNO₂ is the pre-
dominant agent for nitrosation reactions involving
weakly basic amines and amides.

Primary amines are generally not considered to be pre-
cursors of N-nitrosoamines, as nitrosation reactions gener-
ally proceed via diazonium salts which rearrange replace-
ment of the amino group. However, nitrosation of the
simplest aliphatic amine, methylamine, results in a com-
plex mixture of products that include N-nitrosomethyl-
amine (NDMA). Nitrosation of higher primary aliphatic
amines does not result in the formation of N-nitroso com-
pounds.

Nitrosation of secondary amines is second order in
terms of the concentration of nitrous acid and first order in
terms of amine concentration. In a solution, the supply
to form an amine reacts reversibly with a strongly
pH dependent. Strongly basic amines (e.g., morpholine) are
more sensitive than tertiary amines (3).

The rate constants for the pKa 11.4, and is therefore
unaffected by pH changes in the range normally encoun-
tered in foods. The reaction of N₂O₃ with secondary ami-
nes is generally faster than that of HNO₂ (4). The nitro-
sation reactions are also affected by temperature, with
higher temperatures resulting in increased rates of reac-
tion. Nitrosation reactions are also influenced by the pres-
ence of other food components such as ascorbic acid and
sulfite which can act as scavengers for nitrous acid.

REFERENCES

1.  Doll, R., & Pike, R. M. (1983). N-nitroso compounds and human carcinogenicity: A review of the evidence. Food Control, 4(1), 1–16.
2.  Kunii, H., & Udenfriend, P. (1975). N-nitrosoamine formation in foods. Adv. Food Chem., 8, 163–206.
3.  Mirvish, M. J. (1983). Nitrosation reactions. In: Chemistry and Technology of Yoghurt (Harris, L.M., ed.). Applied Science Publishers, London, New York, pp. 457–476.
4.  WHO. (1992). Evaluation of the carcinogenic risk of nitrates and nitrites in foods. Technical Report Series No. 849. Geneva: World Health Organization.



N