Understanding Drug Addiction:
Implications for Treatment

ALAN I. LESHNER National Institute on Drug Abuse

The addicted brain is qualitatively different from the nonaddicted brain, in ways that include glucose use, gene expression, and responsiveness to environmental cues. Such discoveries place researchers in the early but hopeful stages of translating fundamental findings into new treatments that address the neurobiologic basis of drug craving—even for cocaine, against what there are currently no pharmacologic interventions.

drug addiction is fundamentally a brain disease. This seemingly straightforward observation is actually the outcome of dramatic changes in our understanding of substance abuse. Before the advances, addiction was typically seen as a purely behavioral disorder, characterized primarily by drug craving and externally compulsive (and harmful) drug-seeking behavior. Its chief pathophysiologic manifestation was the withdrawal syndrome resulting from abstinence. Neurobiologically, however, it is now known that the drug-addicted brain is qualitatively different from the nonaddicted brain, as manifested in metabolism, glycemia, declines in glucose metabolism and intranuclear changes in gene expression. In effect, a “switch” has been thrown. Although the precise molecules na-ture of the switch remains unknown, current knowledge implicates activation of the brain’s mesolimbic dopamine system as a common de-terminant in at least the acute effects of all abused drugs.

Behavioral science advances have been equally significant. They show that environmental factors are abnormally conditioned, so that they trigger the addiction craving which has become part of the addiction. Suspicion of the importance of such cues dates back to the 1930s when researchers from Glen Haven asylum in Iowa attempted to “cure” patients through a technique called “counterconditioning.” This involved pairing drug-associated stimuli with unpleasant experiences, such as electric shock or foul odors. The results were disappointing, but the concept was prescient. Today, we know that environmental cues can trigger relapse even after years of abstinence.

The neurobiologic advances represent initial efforts to identify the changes induced by chronic substance abuse and thus to address the physical basis of drug craving. Specific pharmacologic intervention would aim to throw the addiction “switch” back. Meanwhile, behavioral science advances emphasize that drug addiction is a brain disease embedded in a social context. Treatment must therefore include deconditioning to extinguish cues that would otherwise be inducements for relapse. Together, the lines of research point to more event-based treatment programs more comprehensible and more effective than those we currently have.

The Emerging Neurobiology

Among the wealth of findings that now illuminate the basis of drug addiction in the brain, the most elemental, but critical, has been the identification of molecular sites of action for every major abused drug. These such actions affect cellular channels or transmembrane receptors (pump) molecules. For example, opiates bind to the μ-opioid receptors where they exert their neuropharmacologic response; marijuana binds to unique receptors responsible for its psychotropic effects; amphetamines cause dopamine to be released from nerve terminals; and cocaine blocks the reuptake of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin.

The identification of these molecular sites of action has provided a foundation for developing pharmacologic interventions that specifically target them. For example, naltrexone, an opioid receptor antagonist, is now used to treat opiate addiction. It blocks the euphoric effects of opiates and reduces the severity of withdrawal symptoms. Similarly, researchers are attempting to develop drugs that block the effects of cocaine at its sites of action.

The neurobiology of drug addiction also reveals a number of important insights into the mechanisms underlying relapse. Relapse is not simply a voluntary decision; it is an involuntary response triggered by environmental cues—the same cues that were originally associated with drug use. These cues activate neural pathways in the brain that trigger intense craving and, ultimately, drug-seeking behavior.