J Clin Epidemiol Vol. 49, No. 9, pp. 951–956, 1996
Copyright © 1996 Elsevier Science Inc.

ELSEVIER

COMMENTARY

Causal Thinking, Biomarkers, and Mechanisms
of Carcinogenesis

Paola Vineis* and Miguel Porta*
*UNIT OF CANCER EPIDEMIOLOGY, UNIVERSITÀ AUTONOMA DI BARCELLONA, BARCELONA, SPAIN &08003

ABSTRACT. The use of biomarkers is increasing both in acute and chronic disease epidemiology, but the rationale for their introduction is not always firmly established (e.g., when and how their use is scientifically justifiable and cost effective).

The use of biomarkers should be considered within the context of causal models in epidemiology, and of the distinction between “causes” and “pathogenic events”. In cancer epidemiology, it is difficult to distinguish disease external "necessary" causes have not been identified. Thus, the classification of cancer and other chronic diseases as a consequence of multiple pathogenic events rather than single causes is more appropriate. In this way, epidemiology can convert “nosology” and “bathology” (the attribution of cancer that cannot be explained by known risk factors) into an understanding of disease mechanisms. The distinction between tissue in some circumstances it are obvious in others. From a mechanistic point of view, unless molecular biology discoveries provide new insights into the pathogenesis of cancer, we cannot expect an unequivocal definition of “cause”. The potential contribution of biomarkers to the elucidation of the pathogenic process should be considered in light of these considerations.

There is a range of indications for biomarkers, from the use of very specific measurements aimed at single molecules, to measurements indicating cumulative exposure to agents with the same mechanism of action.
The utility of biomarkers in epidemiological research depends on several factors: (1) their availability in tissues or fluids, (2) their stability and ease of measurement, (3) their association with disease risk in populations with differential exposures, and (4) their biological plausibility.

We discuss the ways in which biomarkers can be used to evaluate hypotheses about carcinogens, including the assessment of exposure, dose-response relationships, latency periods, and genetic susceptibility.

KEY WORDS: Biomarkers; Carcinogenesis; Causal inference; Epidemiology; Mechanisms.

INTRODUCTION

The use of biomarkers is increasing rapidly in epidemiological research (1–3). Biomarkers are defined as “objective measures of early biological effects or characteristics” (4). They can be used to assess exposure, detect early signs of disease, and monitor the effectiveness of interventions. However, the rationale for their introduction is not always firmly established (e.g., when and how their use is scientifically justifiable and cost effective) (5).

Biomarkers are often presented as a way to overcome some of the limitations of traditional epidemiological studies, such as reliance on self-reported exposures or long latency periods. However, it is important to consider biomarkers within the context of causal models in epidemiology (6), and of the distinction between “causes” and “pathogenic events”.

In cancer epidemiology, it is difficult to distinguish disease external "necessary" causes have not been identified. Thus, the classification of cancer and other chronic diseases as a consequence of multiple pathogenic events rather than single causes is more appropriate. In this way, epidemiology can convert “nosology” and “bathology” (the attribution of cancer that cannot be explained by known risk factors) into an understanding of disease mechanisms. The distinction between tissue in some circumstances it are obvious in others. From a mechanistic point of view, unless molecular biology discoveries provide new insights into the pathogenesis of cancer, we cannot expect an unequivocal definition of “cause”.

24493
0895-4356/96/$15.00
PII: S0895-4356(96)00118-7

951
J CLIN EPIDEMIOLOGY
(SUPERPAN EUROPEAN SCIENCE LTD EN

Rk SA
wollest

The potential contribution of biomarkers to the elucidation of the pathogenic process should be considered in light of these considerations.

There is a range of indications for biomarkers, from the use of very specific measurements aimed at single molecules, to measurements indicating cumulative exposure to agents with the same mechanism of action. The utility of biomarkers in epidemiological research depends on several factors: (1) their availability in tissues or fluids, (2) their stability and ease of measurement, (3) their association with disease risk in populations with differential exposures, and (4) their biological plausibility.

We discuss the ways in which biomarkers can be used to evaluate hypotheses about carcinogens, including the assessment of exposure, dose-response relationships, latency periods, and genetic susceptibility.



