THE CHANGING CIGARETTE, 1950–1995

Dietrich Hoffmann, Ilse Hoffmann

American Health Foundation, Valhalla, New York, USA

Nicotine is recognized to be the major driver of tobacco dependence. The smoking of cigarettes is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease, and is causally associated with increased risks for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancers of the lung, larynx, esophagus, pancreas, kidney, bladder, uterus, cervix, colon, and leukemia. It is also associated with cancer of the liver, cancer of the uterine cervix, cancer of the nasal cavity, and myeloid leukemia.

In 1950, the first epidemiological studies documented a relationship between cigarette smoking and lung cancer and described a dose-response relationship between number of cigarettes smoked and risk of developing lung cancer. These early observations were not only confirmed by several hundreds of prospective and case-control studies but also strengthened by the identification of carcinogens in cigarette smoke. Whole unsmoked cigarettes induced tumors in mice, and subsequent studies demonstrated that particulate matter from the smoke elicits benign and malignant tracts on the skin of rats and rabbits, sarcoma in the connective tissue of rats, and carcinomas in the lungs of rats upon intratracheal instillation. Among the many compounds identified in cigarette smoke are a variety of compounds: polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), aromatic amines, and N-nitrosamines. The identification of these carcinogens has been shown to be of special significance.

The composition of cigarettes and the composition of cigarette smoke have gradually changed. In the United States, the tar-weighted average “tar” and nicotine yields of cigarettes decreased from 38 mg “tar” and 2.7 mg nicotine in 1950 to 12 mg “tar” and 1.2 mg nicotine in 1996 in the United Kingdom, the decline was from about 32 mg “tar” and 2.3 mg nicotine to less than 12 mg “tar” and 1.0 mg nicotine per cigarette.

Reductions of smoke yields were primarily achieved by the introduction of filter tips, with modifications in tobacco blends and cigarette design also contributing. The addition of ventilation slots to cigarettes has been a major factor in reducing smoke yields. In recent years, there has been an increase in the use of modified combustion products devices (MCPDs) that are designed to reduce the levels of certain harmful constituents in cigarette smoke.

The identification of carcinogens in cigarette smoke and the subsequent reduction in tar and nicotine yields have led to a decrease in lung cancer incidence rates in some countries. However, the overall burden of smoking-related diseases remains substantial, and there is continued concern about the health effects of exposure to secondhand smoke.

References

1. Hoffmann, D., & Hoffmann, I. (1993). Cigarette Smoking: Health Effects and Mitigation. Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York.
2. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (1993). The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke. National Cancer Institute, Washington, DC.