PERSPECTIVES Editorial

The protection of children will require . . . that guidelines for risk assessment address children.

Carcinogen Risk Assessment Guidelines and Children

Over two years ago, the White House issued Executive Order 13045, “Protection of Children from Environmental Health Risks and Safety Risks.” This order directed agencies to identify and assess environmental health and safety risks that may disproportionately affect children and to revise policies and standards to address these risks. (1) The executive order reflected a growing emphasis on well-recognized differences in the exposures, vulnerabilities, and toxic responses of infants and children to chemical exposures.

The concern about the special vulnerability of infants and children to environmental exposures, particularly pesticides, prompted the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to convene a panel of scientists many years ago. This study resulted in the important 1993 report Pesticides in the Diet of Infants and Children (2, 1). In its National Academy of Sciences report, “Pesticides in the Diet of Infants and Children,” the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) committed to revising risk assessment guidelines to better protect children (3, 1997). The EPA solicited comments from the public on proposed changes to risk assessment procedures for pesticides, and a national advisory committee identified several topics—mercury-ry contamination, protection from stem blight, pituitary stimulation, and pesticide exposure in infants and children.

The focus on children has extended the range of human food contaminants considered for regulation. The emphasis on infant health is appropriate, given that infants are exposed to higher concentrations of pesticides per unit body weight than adults. This is due to their greater intake of foods relative to body size, their immature metabolic systems, and their dependence on caregivers who may use pesticides in the home or garden.

The EPA’s proposed changes to risk assessment procedures for pesticides include a focus on developmental effects, such as neurotoxicity, endocrine disruption, and immunotoxicity. The agency also proposes to consider the potential for children to be more susceptible to the effects of pesticides than adults. These proposals are laudable, but they do not go far enough.

The current EPA risk assessment process does not adequately address several critical issues related to pesticide exposure in infants and children. First, the EPA’s default uncertainty factor of 10-fold is inadequate for protecting children. Children may be more susceptible to pesticides than adults because of differences in their physiology, behavior, and exposures. The EPA should use a higher uncertainty factor when assessing risks to children.

Second, the EPA’s risk assessment process does not adequately consider the potential for cumulative effects from exposure to multiple pesticides. Infants and children are exposed to a wide variety of pesticides through their diet, air, water, and soil. These exposures can occur simultaneously or sequentially, and they may have additive or synergistic effects. The EPA should develop methods for assessing the cumulative risks associated with pesticide exposure in infants and children.

Third, the EPA’s risk assessment process does not adequately consider the potential for pesticides to interfere with endocrine function. Endocrine disruptors are chemicals that can mimic or block the action of hormones, leading to adverse health effects. Infants and children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of endocrine disruptors because their endocrine systems are still developing. The EPA should require pesticide manufacturers to provide data on the endocrine-disrupting potential of their products.

Fourth, the EPA’s risk assessment process does not adequately consider the potential for pesticides to cause neurodevelopmental effects. Neurodevelopmental effects are adverse effects on brain development that can lead to learning disabilities, behavioral problems, and other neurological disorders. Infants and children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of neurotoxicants because their brains are still developing. The EPA should require pesticide manufacturers to provide data on the neurodevelopmental toxicity of their products.

Fifth, the EPA’s risk assessment process does not adequately consider the potential for pesticides to cause immunotoxicity. Immunotoxic effects are adverse effects on the immune system that can lead to increased susceptibility to infections and other diseases. Infants and children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of immunotoxicants because their immune systems are still developing. The EPA should require pesticide manufacturers to provide data on the immunotoxicity of their products.

Sixth, the EPA’s risk assessment process does not adequately consider the potential for pesticides to cause cancer. Cancer is a disease in which cells grow out of control and can invade other parts of the body. Infants and children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of carcinogens because their cells are dividing rapidly. The EPA should require pesticide manufacturers to provide data on the carcinogenic potential of their products.

Seventh, the EPA’s risk assessment process does not adequately consider the potential for pesticides to cause reproductive toxicity. Reproductive toxic effects are adverse effects on reproduction that can lead to infertility, birth defects, and other reproductive problems. Infants and children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of reproductive toxicants because their reproductive systems are still developing. The EPA should require pesticide manufacturers to provide data on the reproductive toxicity of their products.

Patricia A. Butler

impacts of chemicals with common mechanisms of action. These are important considerations for scientifically grounded policy that will protect children. When data are not adequate to allow for assessment of differences in exposure and susceptibility, pesticide tolerances are incom- patible with a safe factor of 10.

Although the process of implementation of these fundamental changes may be difficult and require collaboration by regulatory agencies and by pesticide users and producers, these important policy goals were worthy of consideration in the context of guidelines for risk assessment for chemical carcinogens.

Toxic responses in infants and children can differ markedly from those seen in adults, particularly during periods of rapid growth. During the growth and maturation process there is an ex- posure to a variety of hormones that are critical for normal development including thyroid hormone. Changes in potential for a child’s environment or chronic drug interactions with these hormones may lead to adverse effects.

Different children and adults are provided with varying amounts of pesticides, which can be influenced by the type of diet they consume. The differences in metabolism between infants and adults also contribute to the variation in pesticide exposure. For example, infants have a lower capacity to detoxify certain pesticides than adults do. This means that infants may accumulate higher concentrations of pesticides in their bodies than adults do.

The EPA’s proposed changes to risk assessment procedures for pesticides are a step in the right direction, but they do not go far enough. The agency should adopt a more precautionary approach to protecting children from pesticide exposure. This would involve using a higher uncertainty factor when assessing risks to children, considering the potential for cumulative effects from exposure to multiple pesticides, and requiring pesticide manufacturers to provide data on the endocrine-disrupting, neurodevelopmental, immunotoxic, carcinogenic, and reproductive toxicity of their products.

References

1. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1997. Pesticides in the Diet of Infants and Children. Washington, D.C.
2. National Research Council. 1997. Pesticides in the Diet of Infants and Children. National Academy Press, Washington, D.C.
3. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1997. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Draft Revised Human Health Risk Assessment for Pesticides. Federal Register 62(180):45908-45938.



