American Journal of Industrial Medicine 16:511-531 (1998)

Relation of Radon Exposure and Tobacco use to Lung Cancer Among Tin Miners in Yunnan Province, China

You-Lin Qiao, MD, Philip R. Taylor, MD, ScD, Shui-Xiang Yao, MD,
Arthur Schatzki, MD, Bao-Lin Mao, MD, Jian-Yu Rao, Mary McAdams, MD, Xiang-Zhen Xuan, MD, and
Jun-Yao Li, MD

We studied the relation of radon exposure and tobacco use to lung cancer among tin
miners in Yunnan Province, China. We interviewed 1083 tin miners who had
lung cancer and an equal number of age-matched controls from the same area.
Information on lung cancer risk factors including a detailed history of employment and tobacco use
was obtained. Radon exposure was estimated using a simplified method based on
cumulative working level months (WLM) of radon daughter exposure. Similar data were
obtained for wives, who also lived in the miners’ homes. Pipe smoking, a traditional
form of tobacco use associated with a cuvofold elevation in risk when compared with tobacco
use by other means, was more common among lung cancer cases than controls. Use of
pipe-year (dose time duration) cause. Estimated WLM of radon exposure varied from
0 to 1596 months. The presence of a positive correlation between the radon exposure distri-
bution and the distribution of lung cancer risk, suggesting that miners with higher radon
exposure without radon exposure after confidence for arsenic exposure and other
potential confounders were considered. A high level of radon exposure was associated
higher risk associated with long duration as opposed to high rate of exposure. Cross-
sectional data suggest greater risk associated with radon exposure than tobacco.

Key words: China, radon, tobacco, occupational exposure

Reprint requests to: You-Lin Qiao, MD, Yunnan Provincial Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy, 137 Dong Da Street, Kunming, Yunnan 650011, China.
Received July 28, 1997; accepted December 16, 1997

Supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 5943062).
The study was also supported in part by a grant from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

Address requests for reprints to: Philip R. Taylor, MD, ScD, Department of
Environmental Health Sciences, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Campus Box 313, Rosenau Hall CB#8700, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-8700.

207:5708