Japanese Journal of Physiology, Vol. 31, pp. 117-123, 1981

Prediction of the Carbomonomethyloglobin Levels during and after Carbon Monoxide Exposures in Various Animal Species

HiRO TSUKAWA, Yoshihiro UEDA, Kazuo BANZAI,
and Hiroaki KOSAKA

Department of Physiology, Medical School,
Osaka University, Osaka 560

Abstract: The equation derived by COUGHLIN, FORSYTH, and KAINE (1965)
for the rate of elimination of inspired carbon monoxide was
solved analytically with less restrictive assumptions. This solution can
predict the carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels during and after exposures of 50 to 500 ppm
CO in rats with reasonable accuracy, provided that the CO elimination by breathing is proportional
to the arterial blood CO concentration. The equation also predicts that the mass
and hemoglobin concentration. It has been shown that the rate of both
processes are inversely proportional to body mass; the smaller the animal, the faster the rate of joint absorption
and elimination.

A number of papers have been published on the prediction of the carboxy-
hemoglobin (COHb) levels resulting from CO exposures by using
theoretical equations (COUGHLIN et al., 1965; PARE et al., 1968;
FORSYTH et al., 1969). In 1965 COUGHLIN, FORSYTH, and KAINE derived
a new differential equation (CFK equation) which describes the
elimination of inspired carbon monoxide. The CFK equation was successfully used in a study of endogenous
CO production.

In principle, however, the CFK solution cannot be applied to the prediction of COHb levels during and after exposures of high concentrations. Based on
the assumption that the rate of CO elimination is proportional to 0.1*sqrt(COHb),
FORSYTH and STRAW (1970) were capable of solving the CFK equation
for the purpose of predicting the COHb levels in man during and after exposures.
Therefore, they obtained a solution for the CFK equation
which allows for the prediction of COHb levels during and after exposures.

In the present study, we have solved the CFK equation analytically with
less restrictive assumptions than those used by FORSYTH and STRAW (1970).
The purpose of this paper is to describe the solution and to show its application
to the prediction of COHb levels in rats during and after exposures.

Materials and Methods

Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 250-350 g were used in these experiments.
The animals were anesthetized with pentobarbital (40 mg/kg) and tracheotomized.
A carotid artery was cannulated for the measurement of arterial blood COHb levels.
The animals were placed in a metabolic chamber, and inspired air was replaced
with gas mixtures containing 0, 50, 250, or 500 ppm CO. The concentrations
of CO were verified by mass spectrometry. Arterial blood samples were taken
at 1-min intervals throughout the experiment.

Results

The solution of the CFK equation is shown in Figure 1. The equation
is based on the following assumptions: (1) the rate of elimination of inspired
CO is proportional to arterial blood CO concentration, and (2) the mass
and hemoglobin concentration are constant.

Figure 2 shows the predicted COHb levels during and after exposures
of 50 ppm CO in rats. The predicted values agree reasonably well with the
experimental values. Figure 3 shows the predicted COHb levels during and after
exposures of 250 ppm CO in rats. Again, the predicted values agree reasonably
well with the experimental values.

Discussion

The solution of the CFK equation presented here allows for the prediction
of COHb levels during and after exposures of high concentrations of CO in rats.
The accuracy of the predictions depends on the validity of the assumptions
made. The assumption that the rate of elimination of inspired CO is proportional
to arterial blood CO concentration appears to be reasonable, at least for
exposures of up to 500 ppm CO.

208/2126/80