Mr. Parrish

Organoleptic Properties of Aliphatic
Aldehydes

By Mans H. Boelens, Destilaciones Bordas Cinchurreta S.A.,
Seville, Spain.
and
Leo J. van Gemert, TNO-CIVO Food Analysis Institute,
Zeist, The Netherlands

Aliphatic aldehydes have been detected as
volatile compounds in food, essential oils
and other natural isolates. The organoleptic
qualities and threshold values of these com-
pounds were studied.
In straight chain saturated and unsaturated al-
dehydes several main organoleptic qualities can
be recognized: green, vegetable, fatty, floral
and citrus. These qualities are mainly depen-
dent on the chain length and the type and place
of unsaturation of the compounds. Odor and
flavor threshold values have been studied in sev-
eral media, for instance in air, water, milk, min-
era! water and vegetable oil.
The threshold values of the aldehydes in the
same medium can be quite different; sometimes
they differ by several orders of magnitude. The
type and place of the unsaturation is more im-
portant for the threshold value than the chain
length.
During an investigation concerning physico-
chemical parameters related to organoleptic
properties of flavor components, we studied the
organoleptic properties of about seventy al-

dehydes.’ The aldehydes comprise alkanals, al-
kenals and alkynals from C2 to C16.
Because this study is mainly based on litera-
ture data it seems worthwhile to comment in
general on some important publications regard-
ing the organoleptic properties of aldehydes.
We established three periods over the last
thirty years with respect to studies concerning
the organoleptic properties of aldehydes. From
1956 until 1971 we found several publications
mainly reporting the flavor threshold values.’
During 1971 to 1980 we read about flavor as well
as odor aspects of the compounds, with more em-
phasis on fundamental aspects and odor threshold
values. Since 1980 we have seen quite a revi-
val in publications about the organoleptic prop-
erties, both flavor and odor, of the aldehydes.’
Authors, however, who study the flavor aspects
seldom refer to those who investigate the odor
aspects and vice versa.

In the following sections we will discuss our
own investigations and studies of the published
organoleptic qualities and of threshold values of
aliphatic aldehydes.

Perfumer & Flavorist 9(3)



Vol. 12 October-November 1987
2082341750