Philip Morris KK   Fax: +81-3-5562-7351  '95E 3月2日 (木) 17:57   P. 02/07

日本薬理學會誌(Jpn. J. Pharmacological) 18: 203-208 (1998)
第1回ニューロサイエンス藥物依存研究ワークショップ
*薬剤依存脳メカニズム,* 東京, 1998

203

Special lecture

Clinical Manifestations of Addiction _

Donald R. Jasinski *
* The Johns Hopkins University
Baltimore, Maryland, USA

Addiction is a behavior that is defined as including a psychic and clinical reliance on a chemical or substance (1,39). Addiction is distinct from drug use, misuse or abuse. Addiction implies a loss of control over ingestion in association with harm to the individual or society. Knowledge about clinical manifestations of addiction is gained from treatment settings; from toxic consequences of substance abuse; from overdose situations; and, most importantly, from experimental pharmacology studies in humans. This presentation will focus primarily on the results of experimental pharmacology studies in humans that document and elucidate clinical manifestations of addiction. The initial drive of public health and social concern led to support for scientific studies was opiates (morphine is the prototype) (1). Knowledge of the important phenomena and of the addictive process developed from experimental studies of morphine in addicts. It is important to emphasize that the addictive process involves not only the pharmacologic effects of the drug but is known to involve learning mechanisms, the environment, and predisposing biologic states or traits of the substance abuser (1, 39). The classic pharmacologic effects involved in the addictive process are euphoria, tolerance and physical dependence. Examples from studies on opiates, stimulants, sedatives, Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and nicotine will be discussed.

Studies of Euphoria

When given morphine, addicts discriminate the effects of morphine from placebo and from other classes of drugs (8, 5, 6). There is an abatement of effects that are dose related. One set of effects from morphine in addicts is pleasurable and it is liked (8, 4, 5, 6). These subjective changes are described as euphoria and are measured by increasing “Liking” scales and specific euphoria scores. *The Morphine Benzodiazpine Group calls (MBG)*. These euphoric effects are accompanied by some dysporic effects. This response in addicts is contrasted to the effect of morphine in non-addicts where 70% elaborate the effects and report only dysphoria. Other opiates such as codeine, hydrocodone, meperidine and fentanyl elicit euphoria in addicts (8). The euphoric effects of morphine are blocked by naloxone (8). The euphoric effects of morphine are elicited by intravenous administration (8) and oral administration (12). Euphoria is elicited by doses as low as 0.5 mg/kg (8).

Euphoria and Reinforcement

Euphoria is a component of reinforcement in addicts (8, 13). Reinforcement is defined as behavior that is maintained by its consequences (14). Reinforcement is measured by the willingness of subjects to work for drugs (15). Euphoria is not sufficient for reinforcement. Other factors such as tolerance and physical dependence are also involved in reinforcement (16).

Studies of Tolerance

Tolerance is defined as a decreased response to a drug with repeated administration (17). Tolerance is manifested as an increased dose requirement for the same effect (18). Tolerance can be demonstrated after only two days of morphine administration (19). Tolerance is manifested behaviorally as a decreased analgesic effect (20) and a decreased euphoric effect (8).

Studies of Physical Dependence

Physical dependence is defined as the appearance of physical signs and symptoms when a drug is discontinued (21). Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal signs and symptoms (22). Withdrawal signs and symptoms are elicited by abrupt discontinuation of morphine (23). 
20E315831