EXPERIMENAL AND MOLAR PATHOLOGY 33, 90–103 (1986)

14R

Toxic Inhalation of Nitrogen Dioxide: Morphologic and
Functional Changes*

TEE L. GUIDOTTI

Department of Environmental Health Sciences, The Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public
Health, and Respiratory Division, The Johns Hopkins Hospital,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205

Received December 26, 1979; and in revised form May 11, 1986

Nitrogen dioxide (NO₂) is used experimentally to produce a controlled diffuse alveolar
injury in animals. A limitation of these studies has been uncertainty over the concentration
of gas reaching the alveoli. We developed a system incorporating a mechanical ventilation
mechanism. The upper airway can be bypassed using a taper of unilateral bronchial
cannulation originally developed for the study of collateral ventilation. The technique
was employed in four beagle dogs, each exposed to 50 ppm NO₂ in air and the right
lung with room air under light anesthesia for 1 hr. During the exposure oxygen uptake was
monitored continuously, along with arterial blood gas tensions, alveolar-arterial oxygen
differential, methemoglobin level, and plasma hemoplobin. After the exposure period
the animals were killed at autopsy. The lungs showed diffuse alveolar damage and
mild acute pulmonary hemorrhage. Oxygen uptake dropped abruptly and markedly but reversi-
bly upon ventilation of the lung with room air. The arterial blood gas tensions improved
by this technique measurements are not change significantly over the period of exposure.
The morphologic changes included edema, hyaline membrane formation, capillary plugging,
and early interstitial edema. These findings can be integrated into an overall schema of NO₂ toxic
injury involving initial vascular constriction, followed by alveolar epithelial damage and
early interstitial edema. These findings can be integrated into an overall schema of NO₂ toxic
injury involving initial vascular constriction, followed by alveolar epithelial damage and
early interstitial edema.

Nitrogen dioxide (NO₂) produces a diffuse alveolar and terminal bronchiolar
injury when inhaled in sufficient concentration (Guidotti, 1978). Toxic inhalation
of NO₂ is both a potential problem due to accidental exposure and an
exposure used in the experimental tool which produces a controlled deeper pulmonary
injury. A limitation of previous experiments with the lung has been uncertainty
regarding the amount of gas reaching the alveoli. The alveolar ventilation rate,
particularly in the dependent regions of the lung, is influenced by a number of factors,
such as airway resistance, collateral ventilation, and gravity (Matthews et al., 1975;
Eggers and Schroeder, 1976). To circumvent these limitations, we developed a
technique for direct alveolar ventilation. The upper airway can be bypassed using a
taper of unilateral bronchial cannulation originally developed for the study of collateral
ventilation (Bracco et al., 1973; Guidotti and Bracco, 1974). This technique allows
for precise control over the gas composition reaching the alveoli.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Four adult beagle dogs were used in this study. The animals weighed between 12 and 15 kg.
Anesthesia was maintained with 1% halothane in oxygen. Arterial blood pressure, heart rate,
and rectal temperature were monitored continuously.