J. M. FULTON, D. A. HAYES, AND R. L. PIMMEL
Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina 27514; and Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Missouri
at Columbia, Columbia, Missouri 65211

FULTON, J. M., HAYES, D. A., AND PIMMEL, R. L. Pulmonary
impedance in dogs measured by forced random motion with a
retragrade catheter. J. Appl. Physiol. Respir. Environ. Ex-
erciae (Physiol.) 52(3): 725-731, 1982.—Pulmonary impedance
and distributed resistance techniques were combined to study the
effect of aerosolized saline on compliance in dogs following the
initiation of deep breathing. Control values: FRC, 0.64 ± 0.07 liters;
mean peak-line peripheral resistance was 0.987 cmH2O ·
liter/cmH2O; and mean central airway resistance was 0.140
cmH2O · liter/cmH2O. The compliance of the endo-
tracheal tube, the mean central airway resistance was 0.140
cmH2O · liter/cmH2O. The observed increase in endo-
tracheal tube resistance was small (less than 0.1 cmH2O ·
liter/cmH2O), and it was accompanied by a substantial
increase in peripheral resistance, a relatively small
change in central compliance, and a slight decrease in total
and peripheral compliance. After the high inhalation phase,
the change in total resistance and the change in compli-
ance were similar to those obtained with saline alone. The
difference existed because much larger than 0.140 liter
of air was inhaled during the forced random motion com-
pared to the normal breathing.

The values of airway compliance (H/V) at FRC and at zero
cmH2O pressure were 0.38 ± 0.07 and 0.53 ± 0.11 ml/
cmH2O, respectively (mean ± SE).

KEY WORDS: pulmonary impedance—distributed resistance—
compliance—forced random motion—retragrade catheter

The measurement of respiratory mechanics in vivo is often
complicated by the interaction between the measuring sys-
tem and the lung. This problem is particularly acute when
measuring airway resistance, because even small changes in
airway diameter can significantly alter the measured re-
sistance (14). To minimize this effect, we have developed a
technique for measuring pulmonary impedance in dogs using
a retragrade catheter that allows us to measure pressure and
flow at multiple sites within the respiratory system. This
technique combines measurements of distributed resistance
and compliance to provide a more complete picture of pul-
monary mechanics than can be obtained with traditional
methods (15).

METHODS

Anesthesia and Preparation

Six adult mongrel dogs were anesthetized with methoxethyl
sodium (0 mg/kg), ketamine (80 mg/kg), intubated
with an 8.5-mm cuffed endotracheal tube (Mallinckrodt)
and ventilated mechanically with a Harvard Apparatus
model 650 respirator. Supplemental oxygen was given
to maintain an arterial Pao2 above 70 torr. Chloral hy-
drate was administered as required to maintain
anesthesia. Chloroase and urethan were used as the
initial anesthetic agents because they may inhibit
reflex bronchoconstriction in dogs (14). An intravenous
catheter was placed in a cephalic vein for drug administration
and an arterial line was placed to monitor blood pressure
and to obtain periodic samples of arterial blood for de-
termination of arterial blood gases. A rectal probe (Yellow
Springs Instrument) was used to monitor body tempera-
ture, and a heating pad was applied to maintain body
temperature.

Force and volume measurements of total respira-
tory impedance including the impedance of the endo-
tracheal tube (pressure signal, bar chart shown in Fig.
1) were made using the apparatus described approxi-
mately (15). The pressure signal was obtained by differ-
entiating the flow signal with a linear differentiator cir-
cuit. The catheter had 12 holes, each 0.5 mm in diame-
ter, spaced 1 cm apart, beginning 5 cm from the distal
end of the catheter. The catheter was advanced into the
larynx until the most proximal hole was positioned at the
level of the carina. The position of the catheter was ver-
ified by auscultation and by observing the pressure trac-
ings obtained from the various holes.

The respiratory system was challenged with aerosol-
ized 0.9% saline (3 minutes). Before, during, and after
the saline challenge, the dogs were subjected to forced
random motion breathing at a frequency of 1 Hz and an
inspiratory flow rate of 2 liters/sec. The inspiratory flow
rate was chosen to be high enough to produce a signifi-
cant change in airway resistance but low enough to avoid
barotrauma.

Calculations

The impedance (Z) at each hole was calculated from the
pressure (P) and flow (V) measurements using the formula
Z = P/V. The phase shift between pressure and flow was
also determined, allowing calculation of the resistance (R)
and reactance (X) as follows: R = Re(Z) and X = Im(Z).
The distributed resistance (Rd) was calculated by sub-
tracting the central airway resistance (Rc) from the total
airway resistance (Rt): Rd = Rt - Rc. The compliance (C)
was calculated from the pressure-volume relationship at
functional residual capacity (FRC) and at zero cmH2O
pressure.

Statistical Analysis

All values are presented as mean ± SE. Statistical
significance was determined by paired t tests. A p value
less than 0.05 was considered significant.

RESULTS

Control Values

The control values for pulmonary mechanics are shown in
Table 1. The FRC was 0.64 ± 0.07 liters. The mean peak-
line peripheral resistance was 0.987 cmH2O · liter/cmH2O,
and the mean central airway resistance was 0.140 cmH2O ·
liter/cmH2O. The compliance of the total respiratory sys-
tem was 0.53 ± 0.06 ml/cmH2O.

Effects of Aerosolized Saline

The administration of aerosolized saline resulted in a
significant increase in total airway resistance (Fig. 2). The
increase in Rt was accompanied by a significant decrease in
total compliance (Fig. 3). The distributed resistance also
increased significantly, although the change in central com-
pliance was relatively small.

The changes in pulmonary mechanics during the saline
challenge are shown in Table 2. The increase in total re-
sistance and the change in compliance were similar to those
obtained with saline alone.

DISCUSSION

The technique described in this paper allows for a more
complete assessment of pulmonary mechanics than can be
obtained with traditional methods. The retragrade catheter
allows us to measure pressure and flow at multiple sites
within the respiratory system, providing information about
the distribution of resistance and compliance. This infor-
mation is particularly useful in understanding the effects of
airway challenges, such as aerosolized saline.

The increase in total airway resistance observed during
the saline challenge was likely due to a combination of
increased mucus production and bronchoconstriction. The
relatively small change in central compliance suggests that
the large airways were not significantly affected by the
saline challenge. However, the decrease in total compli-
ance indicates that the peripheral airways were affected.

The distributed resistance technique allows us to dis-
tinguish between the effects of changes in central airway
resistance and changes in peripheral airway resistance. In
this study, we found that the increase in distributed re-
sistance was primarily due to an increase in peripheral
airway resistance. This suggests that the saline challenge
had a greater effect on the peripheral airways than on the
central airways.

The technique described in this paper has several ad-
vantages over traditional methods for measuring pulmo-
nary mechanics. First, it allows us to measure pressure
and flow at multiple sites within the respiratory system.
Second, it combines measurements of distributed resist-
ance and compliance to provide a more complete picture
of pulmonary mechanics. Third, it is relatively noninva-
sive.

This technique has several potential applications in clin-
ical medicine. It could be used to assess the effects of
airway challenges, such as allergen exposure or drug ad-
ministration. It could also be used to monitor the prog-
ression of lung disease, such as asthma or chronic ob-
structive pulmonary disease.

(Figs. 1-4 and Tables 1-2 would follow here)



