199

VI. LUNG CONNECTIVE TISSUE IN PATHOLOGIC STATES

A. Emphysema

Emphysema is defined as dilatation of spaces with accompanying destruction of alveolar walls. The current concept of the pathogenesis of emphysema is generally referred to as the “protease-antiprotease theory.” This concept holds that the lung is normally in balance between proteolytic enzymes and antiproteases; when this balance is upset, the most important of which is alpha1-antitrypsin. While the antiprotease serves to protect the lung tissue from destruction.

The most important association with emphysema is a genetic predisposition derived from the association of pansinus disease with a minor trypsinogen deficiency and the resultant reduction in alpha1-antitrypsin levels. The details of this interaction is referred to the chapter by Kuhn in this text as well as several other references, which will be discussed later in this long connective tissue content and metabolism in human and experimental emphysema.

Most interest in connective tissue abnormalities in emphysema has focused on the elastic fibers. These alterations are thought to include:

1. The characteristic physiologic abnormality of emphysema is loss of elastic recoil throughout the volume range (i.e., the static deflation-volume pressure curve is shifted to the right). This is associated with a loss of elasticity and integrity of the alveolar structure.

2. Microscopic examination of human emphysematous lung demonstrates fragmentation of elastic fibers.

3. The most common model for human emphysema results from the intra tracheal instillation of elastase.14 this model can be mimicked with other enzymes which must be capable of digesting elastin.15

It is important to realize, however, that no matter how compelling the indirect evidence may be, it is difficult to prove that elastic fiber abnormalities are primary in emphysema. There are few human data that directly support this concept. There have been very few reports of patients with congenital deficiency of alpha1-antitrypsin who also have clinical manifestations of emphysema.16,17 Such has been raised to point changes in elastin content in collagen fibers.18

The most common model for experimental emphysema is the instillation of elastase into the lungs of dogs.19 The effects of this procedure are similar to those observed in human emphysema, such as alveolar enlargement and destruction of alveolar walls. It has been suggested that the closure pressure20 may be significantly higher than normal lung tissue in animals with experimentally induced emphysema. This may reflect a loss of elastic recoil and an increase in compliance.

The effects of elastase on connective tissue components are complex. Elastin is more susceptible to degradation by elastase than collagen.21 The destruction of elastin leads to fragmentation of the elastic fibers, which results in a decrease in lung elasticity. Collagen is also affected by elastase, but to a lesser extent. The destruction of collagen leads to a decrease in lung strength and an increase in compliance.

The effects of emphysema on connective tissue components are not limited to the lungs. Emphysema can also affect other organs, such as the heart and blood vessels. The elastic fibers in these organs are also susceptible to degradation by elastase. This can lead to a decrease in organ elasticity and strength.

B. Fibrosis

Fibrosis is defined as excessive deposition of connective tissue. It is often associated with inflammation and scarring. Fibrosis can occur in any organ of the body, but it is most common in the lungs.

The pathogenesis of fibrosis is complex. It involves a variety of factors, including:

1. Inflammation: Inflammation is a major factor in the development of fibrosis. Inflammatory cells release cytokines and growth factors that stimulate fibroblasts to produce collagen.

2. Injury: Injury to tissues can also trigger fibrosis. The injury stimulates fibroblasts to produce collagen as part of the healing process.

3. Genetic factors: Genetic factors may also play a role in the development of fibrosis. Some individuals are more likely to develop fibrosis than others due to their genetic makeup.

The effects of fibrosis on lung function are significant. Fibrosis leads to a decrease in lung elasticity and compliance. This makes it difficult to breathe. Fibrosis can also lead to shortness of breath, coughing, and wheezing.

C. Summary

Emphysema and fibrosis are two distinct pathologic processes that affect the lungs. Emphysema is characterized by destruction of alveolar walls, while fibrosis is characterized by excessive deposition of connective tissue. Both conditions can impair lung function and cause respiratory distress.