B343
OWST.
Hm.
W Pe.
Rija.
wla
Original Ate

SUBCHRONIC INHALATION STUDY IN RATS USING
AGED AND DILUTED SIDESTREAM SMOKE
FROM A REFERENCE CIGARETTE

Christopher E. Coggin, Paul H. Ayres, Arnold T. Mosberg
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, North Carolina

John W. Segartz
Veritas, Burlington, North Carolina

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, North Carolina

Mile Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed 6 hours/day, 5 days/week for up to 13 weeks to
aged and diluted sidestream smoke (ADS) from a reference cigarette. The composition of
tobacco smoke #103, it contained 0.67 µg/mL “typical,” 3 f(acetone), & 10 f(exag.
nicotine). Rats were killed at weeks 2, 6, 13 and examined for gross abnormalities. ADS
exposure resulted in increased lung weights and alveolar cell counts. The smoke contained
plume nicotine and cotinine, clinical pathology, and organ and body weights.
The smoke composition was similar to that of a reference cigarette, but the diluted smoke
resulted in CO concentrations in excess of 50 parts. Particulate size distributions showed
a shift toward smaller particles with dilution. The lung tissue exhibited mild interstitial
fibrosis than I pm. The pathological response when rats were slight, & more significant
were noted at week 13. A typical of measured real-world ADS concentrations & ex-
posures. Rats exposed to the diluted smoke showed a similar pattern of effects as those
were also similar to those noted in an earlier experiment with only 5 days duration &
a higher concentration of CO. The results suggest that chronic exposure to ADS may result in
overall, the aged points used in the study demonstrated that if there was no direct-
ly related to the smoke composition. The effects observed were not likely to be
the ability only based on it exaggerated concentrations for an 80 min period at one
time.

The authors thank Jerry Avis, Jim Delu, Debra Frame, and Keith Shove for constructing
the inhalation system & assisting with animal care. We also thank John R. McTavish for
his assistance in the smoke analysis. This study was conducted in compliance with all
applicable regulations. The views expressed are those of the authors and do not reflect
the views of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.

Request No. 91-3708
Report No. 92-4567
2081458