[Image of text]

The role of indoor allergens in asthma

Platts-Mills T. E., Sporik R. B., Chapman M. D., Heyman P. W. The role of indoor allergens in asthma.
Allergy 1995; 50 (Suppl 22): 5-12 © Munksagard 1995

Thomas A.E. Platts-Mills,
Richard B. Sporik,
Martin D. Chapman,
Peter W. Heyman

Key words: Air Pollution Allergens, Asthma, Dustmites, Cats, Indoor.

Address correspondence to: Thomas A.E. Platts-Mills, Allergy and Immunology Department, Box 212, Clinical Immunology Center, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22908

Introduction

The recent NHLBI guidelines on the treatment of asthma included a clear statement about the importance of identifying causes of asthma and of recommending avoidance measures where appropriate or possible. This recommendation was based on several different developments over the last fifteen years:

1) The association between sensitization to foreign proteins or allergens has become very well accepted. From studies in many parts of the world, it is clear that this association is with indoor allergens rather than with pollen. Indeed, the data have reached a point where it is almost certain that indoor allergens are an important cause of asthma (1, 2).

2) As a corollary of this, it seems extremely likely that changes in houses during the period 1940-1970 have been an important contributing cause of the increased prevalence and mortality from asthma (3, 4).

Conclusive evidence has not presented that this contribution is unique or different from the branch, with a characteristic form of allergen exposure. It is likely that the allergen exposure is the commonest cause of in-door allergens.

3) The development of specific assays for individual indoor allergens has allowed us to quantify their presence in dust samples and to relate these measurements to clinical findings. This has led to an improved 

our understanding of the major indoor allergens. Following the purification of Der p 1, there followed the production, cloning, and a development of monoclonal antibodies to a range of indoor allergens, particularly those from dust mites, cats, dogs, and cockroaches. The development of monoclonal antibodies has allowed us to measure exposure and to evaluate quantitatively measures proposed to control exposure (5-11).

The result has been an almost complete change in our understanding of the role of allergens in asthma. In particular, it is clear that allergens can produce inflammatory changes in the lungs and that chronic exposure is likely to be an important cause of both inflammation and the associated bronchial hyperreactivity. Perhaps the strongest evidence for this comes from avoidance studies where it has been shown by several different groups that not only reduced allergen exposure prevents an acute non-specific reaction to asthma but can reduce non-specific airway responsiveness (12). Overall, the emphasis of indoor allergen exposure is the commonest cause of in-door allergens.

References

1. Platts-Mills T. E., Mitchell P. B., Lockey J. F., et al. Allergen avoidance measures for asthma: an overview. J Allergy Clin Immunol 1993; 92: 685-704.
2. Sporik R. B., Chapman M. D., Platts-Mills T. E. Indoor allergen exposure and respiratory health. Environ Health Perspect 1994; 102 (Suppl 4): 41-50.
3. Heyman P. W. The changing face of allergy. J Allergy Clin Immunol 1994; 93: 1-6.
4. Platts-Mills T. E., Sporik R. B., Chapman M. D., et al. Allergen avoidance and asthma: a critical review. J Allergy Clin Immunol 1995; 95: 1072-84.
5. … [rest of the text is unreadable]