21. FEB. 2001 15:08

URGENT ACTION NO. 993 - F. 5/8

The Health of Female
Air Cabin Crews

Frank S. Preston, M.D., C.H.S.

It is a particular honor to be asked to address this distinguished conference on the subject of the health of female air cabin crews.
In my airline we employ large numbers of women in practically every department and have done so since 1936. At present, we employ nearly 2,000 women who fly as cabin crew.
British Airways, we do have women pilots in other British carriers.
Many were employed during the war years, but the lifting of air traffic embargoes resulted from the historic transitional periods, in the service of the Air Transport Auxiliary.

History

BOAC Air Transport, which became part of United Airlines, first employed eagle stewardesses in May 1930. The eight pioneers were all married women who had to resign their jobs upon marriage.
Flights grew wooded but small with cabin and passenger loads on short-range routes. Salaries were low - £12 a month plus expenses. In other U.S. airline employed stewardesses until 1953.
British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC) had 2,200 stewardesses in 1946. They were paid £18 a month plus expenses and were required to be single, under 30, weigh under 172 lbs and be no taller than 5ft 6in.
The first British stewardesses were employed by KLM in 1932. They wore uniforms of dark blue with white blouses and peaked caps.
In 1936, a new regulation was introduced requiring stewardesses to retire when they married or reached the age of 35.
British European Airways (BEA) employed its first stewardesses in 1941. They were paid £15 a month plus expenses.

The early years were difficult. Stewardesses had to make their own beds on overnight stops and often slept in broom cupboards.

This prayer before take-off: "Please God, make me worthy to where
this uniform. I will conduct myself with dignity and grace and
would say “Thank you, Sir.” After the introduction of steward-
esses, passengers were more comfortable and relaxed.
Throughout the 1950s the cabin crew on long distance flights
were all men. However, employed stewardesses in 1951
and KLM in 1935.

The Imperial Airways policy - that British Airways – would have none of this, however, but even-
tually gave way to pressure during overnight stops, which
became accepted after 1945.

BOAC, and later Imperial Airways, first employed stew-
ardesses in 1930 to encourage the manpower malaise during the
war years. The early stewardesses were based at Heathrow and
Kinnau in Ireland and later there were more engaged and flew
to places like Singapore and Hong Kong. During the war years
the operations had shut down but then restarted again.

The first female cabin crew members were employed by Pan American Airways in 1930, and they were paid $75 a month.
In 1932, there was a growing interest in air travel.

BOAC’s first stewardesses were employed in 1936. They were
required to be young, attractive, intelligent and of good character.
They were also expected to be able to swim.

The early uniforms were long dresses with white blouses and peaked caps.
In the 1950s, the uniforms were changed to skirts and sweaters.



