Aust. Paediatr. J. (1985) 21, 139–145

Corrigendum*

Morbidity during the preschool years

D. M. FERGUSON, M. E. DIMOND and T. SHANNON

Department of Paediatrics, Christchurch Clinical School of Medicine, Christchurch Public Hospital, Christchurch, New Zealand

Abstract The prevalence of illness in a birth cohort of Christchurch children during the period from birth to 5 years. By 5 years children had made an average of 18.0 family doctor consultations for morbidity and a further 4.7 for preventive health care. Approximately one-third of children had attended a hospital outpatient department, the majority being general practitioner consultations involved two or more conditions. Respiratory illness, injuries, skin disorders, minor surgery, feeding and management problems, admissions relating to the home environment and gastrointestinal illnesses were common. Two thirds of hospital attendances were for respiratory illness, injuries, accidents, musculoskeletal conditions, vision problems and congenital heart murmur.

Key words: health service use; medical consultation; preschool child.

A previous report examined the prevalence of illness in a birth cohort of Christchurch 3 year olds.¹ This study showed that children had high rates of contact with the health services. By 3 years, children had made an average of 15.0 medical attendances (family doctor and hospital outpatient) per child, attended hospital outpatients 29% had been admitted to hospital. This report describes the five year medical history of the cohort.

METHOD

The study population consists of 1173 children born in Christchurch between July 1980 and June 1981. The children were selected from the maternity rolls of Christchurch Public Hospital and St George’s Private Hospital. Information was obtained from mothers via a questionnaire administered when their child was 3 years old. A second questionnaire was sent to mothers when their child was 5 years old. The questionnaires elicited information about illnesses, hospital attendances, accidents and injuries. In addition, details of any medical records held by the family doctor were requested.

RESULTS

At 5 years, children had made an average of 18.0 family doctor consultations for morbidity (range 0–63) and a further 4.7 for preventive health care (range 0–29). Approximately one-third of children had attended a hospital outpatient department. The majority of these attendances were general practitioner consultations involving two or more conditions.

Table 1 shows the reasons for family doctor consultations at 5 years. Respiratory illness, injuries, skin disorders, minor surgery, feeding and management problems, admissions relating to the home environment and gastrointestinal illnesses were common.

Table 2 shows the reasons for hospital outpatient attendances at 5 years. Two thirds of hospital attendances were for respiratory illness, injuries, accidents, musculoskeletal conditions, vision problems and congenital heart murmur.

89% of mothers kept records while subsequent to the approximately 6th year’s recall.

Mothers were asked to recall incidents of illness since the previous interview. This was used to construct a record of illnesses occurring between 3 and 5 years of age. For mothers who did not keep a diary, questioning about the illness history was conducted via telephone interview.

A small number (26) of children had appeared inadequate and a diary record had not been kept. Doctor contact details were obtained from the family doctor to abstract details for the involved other the researcher helping her writing notes on the child’s medical history. The information was then added to the records.

DISCUSSION

The prevalence of illness in this cohort of Christchurch children is high when compared with previous studies.²³ The average number of family doctor consultations at 5 years is higher than that reported in a study from Dunedin,⁴ where the average was 8.7 consultations. This difference may be due to differences in methodology or referral patterns.

The high rate of hospital outpatient attendances is also notable. Approximately one-third of children attended an outpatient department by 5 years of age. The majority of these attendances were for respiratory illness, injuries and accidents. These findings highlight the importance of preventive measures such as immunization and safety education.

The study has several limitations. Firstly, the data are based on maternal recall, which may be subject to error. Secondly, the study population is not necessarily representative of all children in Christchurch. Thirdly, the study only examined medical attendances; it did not assess the prevalence of illness that was not reported to a health professional.

Despite these limitations, this study provides valuable information about the morbidity experience of young children in Christchurch. The findings highlight the need for continued efforts to improve child health services and promote preventive measures.

*Requests for reprints should be addressed to Dr D. M. Ferguson, Department of Paediatrics, Christchurch Clinical School of Medicine, Christchurch Public Hospital, Christchurch, New Zealand.

References

1. Ferguson DM, Dimond ME, Shannon T. Illness in a cohort of Christchurch children at 3 years of age. Aust Paediatr J 1984; 20: 175–179.
2. Stewart A, Macfarlane R. Childhood illness and health services use in Dunedin. NZ Med J 1976; 93: 283–285.
3. Roberts DM, McHugh C, Campbell NR. Health service utilization by preschool children in Scotland. Scott Med J 1979; 28: 405–408.
4. Stewart A, Macfarlane R. Childhood illness and health services use in Dunedin. NZ Med J 1976; 93: 283–285.