Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism
Vol. 16, No. 12: 1089-1103, 1996
Published by Raven Press, Ltd., New York

Polymorphonuclear Leukocyte Behavior in a Nonhuman
Primate Focal Ischemia Model

Julia A. Ember,* Gregory J. del Zoppo, *†Elsuro Mori,‡Winston S. Thomas,
*Brian R. Copeland, and Tony E. Hugli

Departments of Immunology *and *Experimental and Molecular Medicine, The Scripps Institute,
‡Division of Vascular Surgery, Scripps Clinic Medical Group, La Jolla, California, U.S.A., and †Neurology Service,
Kyoto Heart and Brain Center at Hinji, Kyoto 670, Japan

Summary: There is increasing interest in the role of polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocytes in the evolution of fo-
cal cerebral ischemia. Surgical preparation models may offer limited interpretation of leukocyte reactivity and thereby make interpretation of leukocyte function follow-
ing ischemic/reperfusion difficult. The effects of surgical preparation and experimental ischemia/reperfusion on granulocyte function were examined prospectively in baboons. Twenty-six adolescent male baboons underwent surgical preparation, of which 11 underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion. Anes-
thetional animals served as nonsurgical controls. Peripheral blood leukocyte function was assessed before and af-
ter the surgical preparation (i.e., the overall pro-
cedure) and after implantation of the microelectrode array. The effects of middle cerebral artery occlu-
sion/reperfusion on leukocyte behavior were evaluated. A significant increase from 119 to 419 PMN leukocytes/µl in the number of circulating PMNs was observed (p < 0.01). There was a significant de-
crease in neutrophil chemotaxis (p < 0.05) and in neutrophil respiratory burst activity (p < 0.02). Surgical preparation had no effect (p > 0.4) on the ability of PMN leukocytes, isolated 64 hr after the implantation procedure, to display polarization, O2- production, or β-glucuronidase release when stimulated with human C5a. A moderate decrease in the chemotactic response to C5a was observed following surgical preparation.
Post-thrombolysis middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion resulted in a significant reduction in C5a-induced polarization. The preocclusion value of 89.2 ± 9.7 was compared with the postocclusion/reperfusion value at 36.8 ± 13.7 (p < 0.01). A moderate de-
crease was observed in C5a-induced O2- and β-gluc-
uronidase release, as well as a decrease in chemotac-
tic response. In the nonhuman primate model, the revers-
ible alterations in granulocyte function were seen following surgical preparation resolves within 4 days. In contrast, middle cerebral artery oc-
clusion/reperfusion was associated with a more dramatic and significant reduction in multiple granulocyte functions, including polarization, O2 production, and β-glucuronidase release. Key Words: Baboon—Leukocytes—Ischemia—Reperfusion—Chemotaxis—Respiratory Burst

Received July 18, 1995; accepted November 17, 1996.

Address correspondence to Dr. Tony E. Hugli, The Scripps Institute, 10666 North Torrey Pines Boulevard, La Jolla, California 92037.