The Journal of Biological Chemistry
© 1993 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

Vol. 68, No. 1 January 7, pp. 507-512
The pH-dependent Membrane Association of Procthepin L Is Mediated by a 9-Residue Sequence within the Propeptide

Received for publication, March 25, 1992, and in revised form, August 4, 1993.

Gail F. Mcintyre, Gene D. Godbold, and Ann H. Erickson

From the Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599

The lysosomal protease procthepin L binds to mouse fibroblast microsomal membranes at pH 5. It interacts with a 24-residue peptide (1, 2) and with a 38-residue sequence (3). Erickson, A. H. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 668, 1543-1546). This binding is dependent on N-linked carbohydrate. The lysosomal protease procthepin L is cleaved with trypsin; the resultant short chains of procthepin L peptides still shows pH-dependent membrane association. Procthepin L is a precursor protein containing either 24 or 9 residues in the N-terminal region. A synthetic peptide corresponding to the first 24 residues of procthepin L inhibits binding of the procthepin L to microsomal membranes at pH 5. This suggests that the membrane association was not inhibited either by an extended, flexible tail or by a positive charge. The 24-residue sequence likely is involved in a conformational change in the N-terminal residues from mature mouse procthepin L. A synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 1-9 of mature mouse procthepin L also inhibits binding at pH 5. This suggests that the 9-residue sequence is sufficient for membrane association. The 9-residue sequence contains a single, invariant aspartic acid residue. The lysosomal protease procthepin L is transported to lysosomes via the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus (1). Procthepin L is also transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which degrade cellular components. The lysosomal membrane contains several proteins that mediate transport of lysosomal hydrolases and proenzymes (5). Procthepin L is transported from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes by a pH-dependent mechanism (4). Lysosomes are membrane