A human DNA segment with properties
of the gene that predisposes
to retinoblastoma and osteosarcoma

Stephen H. Friend*, Rose Bernardt, Suzana Rogel*,
Robert A. Weinberg*, Joyce M. Rappaport,
David M. Glover & Phillip A. Sharp

* Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02141, USA
† Children’s Hospital Oncology, The Children's Hospital,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Department of Pediatrics,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA
‡ Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA
§ Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, 243 Charles Street,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA

The genomes of tumorous cells often contain sequences
that are introduced into these cells by retroviral vectors.
They are introduced into non-malignant cells". There is evidence
for the existence of oncogenes in normal cells, and it
appears that a prerequisite for the study of such molecules
is to identify them within the genome of a normal, non-tumorous
oncogene”. This malignant tumour, which arises in the eyes of
children, is characterized by a loss of function at a single locus.
Changes resulting from mutations at this locus can cause
retinoblastoma or osteosarcoma. Here we report that a DNA
sequence, 4.7 kb long, has been isolated from a retinoblas-
toma cell line and may be identical in a patient with inherited
osteosarcoma. The same sequence is also present in a benign
tissue to cause tumor at all times; it is only when a defective
copy is combined with a second mutation that the tissue
becomes tumorigenic. In this paper, we describe the isolation
and characterization of a DNA segment from a retinoblas-
toma cell line which we believe to be involved in the etiology
of this tumour.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Northern blot analysis was performed as described by
Schleifer et al.2. Total RNA was isolated from cultured
retinal and osteosarcoma cells, as well as from a sample of
normal human retina. RNA (10 µg) was separated on a 1.2%
agarose gel containing 30 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 20 mM
sodium acetate, and 1 mM EDTA. The RNA was transferred
to nitrocellulose filter by capillary action. The blot was pre-
hybridized with 50 ml of buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0,
150 mM sodium chloride, 3 mM sodium pyrophosphate,
0.5% bovine serum albumin, 0.5% Ficoll, and 0.5% polyvinyl-
pyrrolidone) for at least 4 h at room temperature. The blot
was hybridized with a probe prepared from a human DNA
cDNA library in φX174 vectors (obtained from the Atherton
Biomedical Communications Ltd). The cDNA library was
prepared from total RNA isolated from normal human retina,
as described by Sanger et al.3. After hybridization, the filters
were washed twice with 6 x SSC (0.15 M sodium chloride,
0.015 M trisodium citrate) at room temperature for 15 min,
followed by two washes with 0.1 x SSC containing 0.1%
sodium dodecyl sulphate at 65°C for 30 min.

The human DNA segment that cloned fragments coding
as a single unit was determined by obtaining a fragment
from a cDNA library prepared from normal human retina.
The sequence was obtained using double-stranded primer
(5'-GCT TTT TTT GGC TTT TTT TTT TTT TTT TTC-3') and
the method of Henikoff4. The DNA sequence (1 kb) was
obtained in both orientations.

RESULTS

Northern blot analysis of RNA isolated from retinal
and osteosarcoma cells, as well as from a sample of normal
human retina, is shown in Fig. 1. Ribonuclease protection
assays were also performed using the same probe. The sizes of
the transcripts are approximately 4.7 kb (Fig. 1).

The human DNA segment was cloned into a bacterial
plasmid and used as a probe to detect RNA from cultured
retinal and osteosarcoma cells. The results are shown in Fig. 1.
A single band, corresponding to a transcript of approximately
4.7 kb, was detected in both retinoma and osteosarcoma cell
lines. This transcript was also detected in normal human retina,
but at a much lower level.

The DNA sequence of the cloned fragment contains a coding
sequence with an open reading frame of 283 amino acids.
The predicted molecular weight of the protein encoded by this
open reading frame is 31 kd. The N-terminal amino acid
sequence is: Met-Asn-Pro-Thr-Lys-Leu-Ile-Val-Gln-Ser-
Ala-Gly-Tyr-Leu-Glu-Asp-…

DISCUSSION

The results of this study suggest that the human DNA
segment isolated from retinoma cells may be involved in the
etiology of this tumour. The fact that this segment is also present
in normal human retina suggests that it may have a normal
function. However, the increased level of expression of this
transcript in retinoma cells suggests that it may be involved
in the pathogenesis of this tumour.

Fig. 1 Northern blot analysis of RNA isolated from retinal and
osteosarcoma cells. Lane 1, retinoma cell line; lane 2, osteosarcoma
human retina. 10 µg RNAsamples. Note: 2.3 kb, 4.0 kb, and
4.7 kb bands are shown.

OS
9.4-
6.5-
4.3-
2.3-
2.0-
2.3-
2.0-
-4.7 kb