charles River

DIGEST

Published Quarterly by THE CHARLES RIVER BREEDING LABORATORIES No. Wilmington, Massachusetts

CURRENT RESEARCH WITH GERM FREE ANIMALS

INTRODUCTION

Man, and scientific man, especially, has long been interested in the symbiotic relationships between organisms. One question which recurs in the older scientific literature is the debate on whether life can exist in the absence of symbionts. Pasteur raised this query in a note on paper by Duclaux in 1885. Perhaps one can date germfree research from the publishing of this inquiry. In any event, studies in germfree technology proceeded apace during the late nineteenth century and spread well into the first half of the twentieth, without much utilization of germ-free animals themselves as experimental objects. Only in recent years has the gnotobiotic animal become a valued instrument in the research armamentarium for the consideration of problems of cancer leukemia, normal morphology, radiobiology, nutrition, virology and infectious diseases, physiological processes, surgery, etc.

The present paper attempts to summarize very briefly the recent scientific inquiries which have employed the gnotobiotic animals.

CANCER

Work at the Lobund Laboratory, University of Notre Dame, indicates that if axenic animals are shown to be free of viruses, they can be used to study the oncogenicity of non-viral carcinogens. Pollard and his associates, however, at the Trudeau Institute have been studying chemical carcinogenesis in germfree mice and rats. In addition, investigators at the National Cancer Institute on spontaneous tumors of the gerrnfree rat in which an three demonstrated strains maintained at the Lobund Laboratory. Pollard, Matsuzawa, and Salomon* have published consider- able material on neoplasia and leukemia in germfree mice and rats and on the response of the reticuloendothelial system to chemical carcinogenesis.

GROWTH

A study of growth in the gnotobiotic dog ap- pears in Laboratory Animal Care by Heneghan and Cohen (1963)*. In work by Lesher, Walburg, and Sacher (1964) an increase was noted in the dura- tion of the generation cycle of germfree mice. It was thought by the authors to be due mainly to increased time spent by the cells in the synthesis and synthesis stages and to an apparent slight in- crease in the mitotic and predivision stages. Growth, reproduction and serum protein in mice and rats fed a chemically defined, water soluble diet have been studied by Pleasants, et al (1964)*. Gordon, Bruckner- Karros, and Wostmann* have examined aging pheno- mena in gnotobiotic and conventional mice. Luckey (1958) studied modes of action of antibiotics in growth stimulation.

1964 - 1965 PUBLICATIONS

A study of the effect of various diets on the serum proteins of germfree rats was reported by Matsuzawa, Pollard, and Salomon (1963)*. The results indicated that the germfree rat is capable of synthesizing all of the serum proteins found in the conventional rat, but that the levels are lower.

The influence of bacterial flora on the development of mammary tumors in mice has been studied by Wostmann, Bruckner-Karros, and Gordon (1964)*. The results indicated that the presence of bacterial flora accelerates the development of mammary tumors in mice.

A study of the effect of various diets on the serum proteins of germfree rats was reported by Matsuzawa, Pollard, and Salomon (1963)*. The results indicated that the germfree rat is capable of synthesizing all of the serum proteins found in the conventional rat, but that the levels are lower.

The influence of bacterial flora on the development of mammary tumors in mice has been studied by Wostmann, Bruckner-Karros, and Gordon (1964)*. The results indicated that the presence of bacterial flora accelerates the development of mammary tumors in mice.