314

Reprinted from the Archives of Pathology
October 1970 Volume 100
Copyright 1970, American Medical Association

Myocardial Dimensions and
Proportions in Pulmonary Emphysema

Alan G. Foraker, MD; Curtis W. M. Redman, MD; and
Augustus E. Anderson, Jr., MD; Jacksonville, Fla.

Hearts and lungs of 74 men over 50 years of
age were assessed utilizing heart weights and
postmortem whole organ section planimetry
measurements of cardiac cavities. Severe emphy-
sema with emphysema severity. Most right
ventricular myocardial areas were increased in
severe emphysema. This was especially apparent
in relation to total ventricular myocardial
cavity area and height. Right ventricular
cavity area remained unchanged at all levels of
emphysema severity. Left ventricular myocardial
area was strikingly diminished in severe
emphysema, both above and below the tricuspid
valve. The left ventricular cavity was decreased in advanced emphysema.

The observed trends were considered consistent
with the view that right ventricular hypertrophy
and left ventricular diastolic atrophy in
severe emphysema.

THE CONSEQUENCES of pulmonary
function have been a subject of dispute.
Emphysema, the major effect of cigarette smok-
ing for years, is known to cause considerable
de-
ile with or without heart failure. The right
ventricular hypertrophy considered. Heart
weights and ventricular dimensions were assessed
utilizing postmortem whole organ section plani-
metry measurements.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the
relation between myocardial dimensions and
proportions and the severity of pulmonary emphy-
sema, suggesting a large reserve factor. Right
ventricular myocardial area was increased in
severe emphysema. This was especially ap-
parent in relation to total ventricular myocardial
cavity area and height. Right ventricular
cavity area remained unchanged at all levels of
emphysema severity. Left ventricular myocardial
area was strikingly diminished in severe
emphysema, both above and below the tricuspid
valve. The left ventricular cavity was decreased
in advanced emphysema.

Crude found no consistent relation be-
tween right ventricular hypertrophy or dila-
tation and pulmonary emphysema or both¹.
Kaufmann and Musha², utilizing cardiac
measurements from chest roentgenograms
and cardiac weights at autopsy in unconju-
gated emphysema, could not confirm the
presence of a coronal heart in emphysema.²

The purpose of this study was to elucidate
the relationship between the heart and em-
physema, utilizing quantitative methods and
postmortem material.

Materials and Methods

Seventy-four cases, all men over 50 years old,
were examined to include the heart and lung.
Lung specimens were derived from the
pathology departments of Baptist Memorial
Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla., but
some came from St. Vincent’s and Riverside
hospitals, both in Jacksonville, and
sawmills, and the Veteran's Administration Hos-
pital, Lake City, Fla. Lungs were examined
for example, nonemphysematous parenchyma,
was critical. Our material included cases that
were obtained in direct examination of the
lungs. The lungs were fixed in formalin and
sectioned in a plane as described by Weiskopf³
and others. Four-micron sections were cut
with a rotary microtome. Sections were
examined at 4x, 10x, 20x, and 40x magnifi-
cation. The severity of emphysema was graded
on a scale of 0 to IV, with 0 representing
normal lungs and IV representing the most
severe degree of emphysema.

[Image of diagrams]