PREPOSAL for the study of THE EFFECTS OF SHEARING STRESS ON THE TRACHEO-BRONCHIAL TREE AND ITS POSSIBLE RELATION TO THE PATHO-
GENESIS OF BRONCHOGENIC CARCINOMA AND CHRONIC BRONCHIITIS.

Paul Hamosh, M. D.

Among the etiological factors which might contribute to the patho-
genesis of bronchogenic carcinoma, mechanical factors received practically
no attention. During rapid expiratory flow and especially during coughing,
powerful shearing forces are generated in the airways. We have demonstrated
that these forces might cause significant damage to the mucosal layer.
This damage can lead to frequent regeneration leading to metaplasia and
ultimately may manifest changes. Discontinuities in the mucosal layer
can also theoretically lead to increased penetration of carcinogenic sub-
stances and even release of additional broncho-constrictor agents (prosta-
glandins). Thus, repeated coughing might produce a vicious cycle resulting
in permanent damage of the airways. Circumstantial evidence to support
this hypothesis is the fact that present studies indicate that bronchogenic
carcinoma is originating in segmental or some subsegmental bronchi. We
have found by calculation that these sites coincide with the points of
maximum shear. "Atrophy" of tracheal mucosa (also a high shear area)
has been reported.

The experimental approach to the study of the above problem is complex.
We have completed the study in isolated tracheal segments and now we would
like to move on to look at the *in vivo* situation. Recently a group at
Oak Ridge developed a model of isolated trachea under the skin of the
back in rats. This model could be easily used to study shearing stress
because of its convenient remoteness from the respiratory system, i.e.
it can be manipulated without interfering with breathing. Further experi-
could be performed by producing an additional animal model in which local-
ized broncho construction could be produced surgically and then areas of
major shearing stress created. A third approach would be computer simulation
of superimposed lung disease on a functioning model for a study of
shearing stress distribution in such a model.

We would be excellently equipped to carry out this research for the follow-
ing reasons:

1) We have contributed so far the only study on this subject.
2) We have excellent personnel which covers everything from nephology
by light microscopy to electron microscopy.
3) We have a program and the hardware for running the computer aspect of
this project.

In view of the above, the time is now necessary to prove or disprove
our hypothesis that shearing forces play an important role in the development
of bronchogenic carcinoma and chronic bronchitis.

Sincerely,

Paul Hamosh, M. D.