THE JOURNAL Vol. 2 No. 4 pp. 499–504, 1983

Purification of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors by affinity chromatography

C. André¹*, J.P. De Becker¹, J.C. Guillet²,
P. Vanderheyden², C. Vauquierin² and A.D. Strosberg²

'Department of Protein Chemistry (turbulent Biochemical),
Free University of Brussels, Laarbeeklaan 103, B-1090 Brussels,
Belgium, and ²Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, Jacques Ménard
Institute, CNRS, Universite Paris VII, Tour 43, Place Jussieu,
75251 Paris Cedex 5, France

Communicated by S. Azoulay
Received on 6 December 1982; revised on 6 February 1983

Calf forebrain homogenates contain 2.8 pm muscarinic acetylcholine receptors per mg of protein. [H]Prazosin saturation revealed a single class of sites with equilibrium dissociation constants of 0.42 nm for [H]prazosin and 0.095 nm for [H]muscarinol. Displacement of binding sites
with agonists revealed the presence of low and high affinity
states, which are stabilized by different ligands. Purification by
affinity chromatography using an affinity gel consisted
of dexlantide coupled to Affi-Gel 10 (L), carbony|-N-hydroxysuccinimide esters linked via a 1 nm spacer arm
allowed binding. Purified proteins were obtained at a pH of
8.0 using imidazole buffer. The immobilized protein
and the irreversible ligand propylbenzilic anhydride,
sited-preparations gave evidence of a single muscarinic
subtype. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in sodium
dodecyl sulphate (SDS) revealed a molecular weight of
approximately 60 kd.

Introduction

Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors are membrane proteins that mediate the effects of acetylcholine and related agonists on various tissues (Fredriksson & von Euler, 1967; Hogquist & Ulman, 1971). These receptors are G-protein coupled receptors (Piomelli et al., 1980) which elicit a variety of cellular responses including changes in ion conductance (Van Crunningen et al., 1982), phosphatidylinositol turnover (Hokin & Neild, 1981) and cyclic nucleotide production (Skelton et al., 1981). The existence of different muscarinic receptor subtypes has been suggested by pharmacological studies (Faccini et al., 1974; Van Nuys et al., 1975) and by the observation that agonists and antagonists can have opposite effects on agonist affinity but
no effect on antagonist binding (Chien et al., 1981; Weis & Sulakhe, 1980; Scammell et al., 1980) and finally, agonists
but not antagonists induce conformational changes (Vauquierin et al., 1982).

mAChRs have been successfully solubilized with a wide
variety of detergents, but the digitonin appears to be
most effective (Goriscn et al., 1981; Ruess and Lickfander,
1979; Hucho, 1979; Karlsson et al., 1978; Repke and Mat-
thies, 1980). An affinity gel with high affinity for mAChRs
(Repke et al., 1980) has been described recently and a
purified hydrophobic mAChRs and α2NAChR proteins
was attempted earlier (Barrantes et al., 1979). We report here
the first successful purification of mAChRs. These receptors
were solubilized with digitonin, purified by absorption on
an affinity gel with dexlantide followed by elution with
the mAChR antagonists atropine or with a highly specific
irreversible ligand propylbenzilic anhydride (PBA-CN).
The radiolabelled purified proteins were analysed by SDS-
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE).

Results

Ligand Binding Characteristics of Forebrain Membrane
Extracts

The affinity purification of mAChRs used a column
containing dexlantide coupled to Affi-Gel 10 (L) via N-hydroxysuccinimide ester. Dextrantide is an analogue of
the peptide hormone bombesin and binds with high affinity
to muscarinic receptors (Vauquierin et al., 1982). The
binding characteristics of mAChRs in calf forebrain
membranes have been previously described (André et al.,
1982). Saturation experiments using [H]prazosin revealed a
single class of sites with an equilibrium dissociation constant
of 0.42 nm (Figure 1A). The number of binding sites per
mg of membrane protein was found to be 2.8 pm. Similar
results were obtained using [H]muscarinol, which gave an
equilibrium dissociation constant of 0.095 nm (Figure 1B).

Affinity Purification of mAChRs

Membranes were solubilized in buffer containing 1%
digitonin and applied to the affinity column. Bound proteins
were eluted with 10 mM atropine or 1 mM propylbenzilic
anhydride N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (PBA-CN). The
elution profile obtained using atropine is shown in Figure 2A.
The elution profile obtained using PBA-CN is shown in Figure
2B.

Figure 3 shows a representative SDS-PAGE analysis of
the proteins eluted with atropine or PBA-CN. A single band
at approximately 60 kd was observed in both fractions.



(*) To whom reprint requests should be addressed.