Brief Definitive Report

INTERLEUKIN 5 AND INTERLEUKIN 2 INDUCE IgG1 SECRETION FROM INTERLEUKIN 4 TO INDUCE IgG1 SECRETION FROM ANTI-IgG1TREATED B CELLS

BY JEFFREY M. PURKERSON*, MICHAEL NEWBERG*, GWENDOLYN WISE*,
KEVIN T. LYNCH* AND PETER C. ISAKSON*

From the Departments of Pharmacology and Biochemistry, The University of Virginia
Medical School, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908

Exposure of murine splenic B cells to insoluble anti-Ig for 48 h yields low density B cell blasts (anti-Ig blasts) that proliferate and secrete IgM when restimulated with either LPS or T cell-derived lymphokines (1, 2). Culture of anti-Ig blasts with a mixture of T cell-derived lymphokines that includes IL-1 (EIA 50) (1, 2) results in secretion of IgG1, which is blocked by monoclonal anti-IL-2. Thus, IL-2 can alter Ig isotype expression in B cells activated by anti-Ig. However, IL-4 alone does not sustain proliferation or promote differentiation of anti-Ig blasts (1, 2), sug-gesting that other lymphokines are required to enable IL-4-induced IgG1 secretion. We have examined the effect of IL-2 on T cell-derived lymphokines on an IL-4-mediated IgG1 secretion. While IL-2 was capable of suppressing IgM secretion from LPS stimulated anti-Ig blasts, secretion of IgG1 required lymphokines in addition to IL- 4, including IL-5 and IL-2.

Materials and Methods

Mice BALB/c mice were obtained from Cumberland Farms, Clinton, TN and used at
6-12 weeks of age.

Reagents Affinity-purified antibodies were obtained from Jackson Immunoresearch, Avon-dale, PA (goat anti-mouse IgM + Ig and anti-chain and anti- chain), and Southern Biotechnology Associates, Birmingham, AL (goat anti-mouse IgG1). Myeloperoxidase was obtained from Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis (MO) (C) Monoclonal rat anti-IL-4 (OHH1) was generously provided by Dr. E. S. Vitetta (Southwestern Medical School, Dallas, TX). Recombinant human IL-2 was obtained from Genetic Engineering Corporation, Cambridge, MA. Sephadex was purchased from Pharmacia Laboratories Inc., Piscataway, NJ.

Culture Conditions Lymphokine-containing supernatant (LC) was made as previously described (2). Briefly, concanavalin A (5 μg/ml) was added to 10^6 phytohemagglutinin-stimulated mouse spleen cells in 5 ml of RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 50 μM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 10 μg/ml penicillin. After 24 h, the cells were removed by filtration, and the supernatant was used as LC. IL-1 was obtained from Genetic Engineering Corporation (EIA 50). IL-2 was prepared as described previously (3). Recombinant human IL-5 (NIH) was generously provided by Dr. S. J. Johnston (DNAX Research Institute of Molecular Biology, Palo Alto, CA).

B Cell Preparation Spleen cells were isolated from BALB/c mice and treated with complement to remove erythrocytes. B cells were then purified by rosetting with anti-IgM antibody followed by removal of T cells by complement lysis (4). The resulting B cell population was >95% pure as determined by immunofluorescence staining for IgM.

Cell Culture Anti-Ig blasts were generated by incubating 10^6 spleen cells with 10 μg/ml anti-IgM antibody in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% FBS, 2 mM L-glutamine, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 50 μM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 10 μg/ml penicillin for 48 h. The cells were then washed and restimulated with either LPS (10 μg/ml) or LC. In some experiments, monoclonal anti-IL-2 (10 μg/ml) was added to block IL-2 activity.

Assay of IgG1 Secretion IgG1 secretion was assayed by ELISA as described previously (5). Briefly, 96-well plates were coated with goat anti-mouse IgM antibody, blocked with BSA, and incubated with culture supernatants. Bound IgG1 was detected using biotinylated goat anti-mouse IgG1 antibody followed by streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase and developed with ABTS.



