Biosynthesis of Factor V in Isolated Guinea Pig Megakaryocytes

Hui Chong Chiu, Paul K. Schick, and Robert W. Colman
Thrombosis Research Center and Hematology-Oncology Section, Department of Medicine,
Temple University Health Sciences Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19140

Abstract
Although platelets contain Factor V, localized primarily in the a-granules, the origin of this coagulation cofactor in these cells is not known. We therefore explored whether isolated megakaryocytes could synthesize Factor V. Guinea pig plasma Factor V adequately supports was demonstrated to be neutralized by monoclonal and rabbit polyclonal antibodies directed monospecifically against human Factor V. These antibodies had been used earlier to purify human Factor V and to quantify Factor V antigen concentration, respectively (1983, Chiu, et al., II, p. 5114; Whalen, et al., J. Clin. Invest. 72:493-503). As determined by a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with guinea pig plasma as a standard, Factor V could be detected in guinea pig megakaryocyte lysates present at 0.098±0.018 µg/10^6 cells. Each megakaryocyte contained about 50 times as much Factor V as is present in platelet (0.24±0.180 µg/10^6 platelets). The content of Factor V in guinea pig plasma was greater (70-30 µg/ml) than that of Factor V antigen in human platelet microsomes (2-4 µg/ml). In contrast, human platelets contained more Factor V antigen (20 ± 2.0 µg/10^6 platelets) than do guinea pig platelets (5 ± 0.8 µg/10^6 platelets). Factor V activities in the guinea pig and human megakaryocyte lysates were 1.3±0.2 and 2.4±0.3 times, respectively, higher than their antigen concentrations. Guinea pig prothrombin converted to thrombin at a rate 1.8 times faster in the presence of guinea pig megakaryocyte lysate than in the presence of platelet microsomes. The molecular weight of Factor V in guinea pig megakaryocytes, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis, was approximately 350,000. Two bands at 350,000 and 120,000 Mr forms of Factor V were substrates for thrombin. Possible explanations for the higher molecular weight and different thrombogenicity and stability observed are that a precursor of Factor V was synthesized or that the megakaryocyte Factor V had not been fully processed before isolation.

Introduction
Factor V is a plasma glycoprotein that functions as a nonenzymatic cofactor accelerating the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin by Factor Xa. Both coagulation out formation initiated either by the intrinsic or extrinsic pathway to proceed at an appropriate rate, Factor V is required. The site of prothrombin conversion in vivo is probably the platelet surface membrane. Milich et al. (1) demonstrated that the binding of Factor Xa to platelets resulted in a 100-fold increase in the enzymatic activity of Factor Xa in converting prothrombin to thrombin and required Factor V (2). In patients with recurrent thrombosis with congenital Factor V deficiency have demonstrated bleeding times extending their platelets. The origin of Factor V is unclear. This study was thus designed to determine whether isolated megakaryocytes can perform a thrombin generation, and studies in bone marrow platelets (4) after 3 days action into birds showed laboratory with the plasma from thrombasthenic mice.

Materials and Methods
Guinea pig megakaryocytes were isolated by incubating bone marrow cells with collagen-coated hydroxyapatite. The megakaryocytes were then separated from other cell types by velocity sedimentation at 100 g for 15 minutes. Platelets were obtained from guinea pig blood by centrifugation at 800 g for 15 minutes, followed by washing twice in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) containing 1 mM EDTA. Human platelets were obtained from venous blood collected into ACD solution. Microsomes were prepared from platelet washes by differential centrifugation. Factor V was purified from human plasma as described previously (3).

Factor V antigen concentration was measured by competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using a monoclonal antibody against human Factor V (5). Factor V activity was determined by measuring the rate of prothrombin conversion to thrombin in the presence of Factor Xa (6). Molecular weights were estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis under reducing conditions.

Results
Guinea pig megakaryocytes synthesize Factor V. Guinea pig plasma Factor