A human airway smooth muscle cell line

that retains physiological responsiveness

R. A. Panettieri, R. K. Murray, L. R. DePaolo,
P. A. Yadvish, and M. I. Kotlikoff

Cardiovascular-Pulmonary Division, Department of Medicine and Laboratory of Pharmacology,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6046

Panettieri, R. A., R. K. Murray, L. R. DePaolo, P. A.
Yadvish, and M. I. Kotlikoff: A human airway smooth
muscle cell line that retains physiological responsiveness. Am. J.
Physiol. 266 (Cell Physiol. 25): C229-C233, 1989.—We report
the development of a nontransformed line of human airway
smooth muscle cells retaining smooth muscle contractile
protein expression and physiological responsiveness to ago-
nists implicated in asthma, leukotrienes, bradykinin, platelet-acti-
vating factor, substance P, and thromboxane analogues are
demonstrated as well as functional responses to adenosine
receptors. The cell line was characterized using indirect im-
munofluorescence and electron microscopy. Cytokine and
inflammatory analysis of smooth muscle-specific cellular func-
tional responses were assessed by measurements of cytoplasmic
calcium mobilization and 3H-thymidine incorporation into
nucleic production. The cells retain their responsiveness over
numerous passages and should be useful for a model to
examine specific receptor-effector mechanisms, as well as the
effects of neuronal agents on the regulation of airway
smooth muscle responses.

airway smooth muscle: tracheal smooth muscle: culture
isolated smooth muscle: platelet-activating factor: leukotrienes

THE development of in vitro models for human airway
smooth muscle has been limited by the difficulty in ob-
taining primary cultures that retain their physiological
characteristics (1, 2). Primary cultures often lose their
contractile protein expression and responsiveness to stimu-
lating agents within a few passages. We have developed a
human airway smooth muscle cell line derived from nor-
mal human trachea that retains its characteristic physio-
logical responses. This cell line provides a stable in vitro

line of human airway smooth muscle cells; cultured cells
are stable over many population doublings and demon-
strate functional responses to the principle inflammatory
mediators implicated in asthma 12, 16).

METHODS

Cell Isolation. Human tracheas were obtained at autopsy
within 8 h of death, in accordance with procedures ap-
proved by the University of Pennsylvania Committee on
Studies Involving Human Beings. A segment of trachea
just proximal to the carina was removed under sterile
conditions and placed in modified Krebs-Henseleit (KRH)
solution (in mM) 115 NaCl, 3 KCl, 2 CaCl2,
1 KH2PO4, 1 MgSO4, 10 glucose, 25 Na-hydroxyethyl-
piperazine-N’,-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), and 10
mg/ml phenol red, pH 7.4 at 4°C for transport to the
laboratory. The trachea was removed from iced KRH and
over-washed with sterile KRH removing the serosal layer
and connective tissue in an epithelial cell.

The adventitia was removed by dissection and then
through the use of sterile techniques under a wet
tissue slice was washed in KRH-ringer’s solution type
was minced and centrifuged at 200 g for 5 min. The
supernatant was discarded, and the tissue was re-
suspended in 10 ml of KRH. This process was repeated
three times to remove blood clots and debris. Tissue
fragments were then transferred to a collagen-coated (Col-
lagen type I, Vitrogen, Palo Alto, CA) T75 flask con-
taining 10 ml of Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium
(DME) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum
(FBS), 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 1 mM nonessential amino
acids, and 2 mM L-glutamine.

Culture Conditions. The cultures were incubated at 37°C
in a humidified atmosphere containing 5% CO2. Media
was changed every 2–3 days. After approximately 14
days, the cells began to adhere to the flask and formed
distinct colonies. These colonies were passaged by scraping
with a rubber policeman into fresh DME supplemented
with 10% FBS.

Results

Cell Morphology. The human airway smooth muscle cell
line (HSM) was established from normal human trachea.
The cells are spindle-shaped and elongated, with a
prominent nucleus and scant cytoplasm (Fig. 1A). The
cells exhibit an appearance similar to that of primary air-
way smooth muscle cells.

Immunofluorescence Staining. Immunofluorescence stain-
ing for contractile proteins demonstrated the presence of
actin, myosin heavy chain, and desmin in the HSM cell line
(Fig. 1B). These findings are consistent with the expression
of airway smooth muscle characteristics.

Functional Responses. The HSM cell line retains its physio-
logical responsiveness to a variety of agonists implicated
in asthma (Table 1). Functional responses were assessed by
measuring cytoplasmic calcium mobilization and 3H-thym-
idine incorporation into nucleic acid production.

TABLE 1. Functional Responses of Human Airway Smooth
Muscle Cell Line

Agonist                                    EC50 (nM)
Leukotriene B4                            1–10
Platelet-Activating Factor                10–100
Substance P                                10–100
Thromboxane A2                             100–1,000
Bradykinin                                 100–1,000

