Cancer Communications, Vol. 1, No. 6, 1988, pp. 345-350
Printed in the U.S.A. All rights reserved.                                  0885-3742/88/0100 0345 $2.00
                                                                        © 1988 Pergamon Press pic

Phosphorylation of HeLa Cell Multiproten DNA Polymerase α Complex:
Impact on Activity and Partial Purification of the Associated Kinase

Jamboor K. Vishvanatha*

Department of Biochemistry
University of Nebraska Medical Center
42nd and Dewey Avenues, Omaha, NE 68105-1065

(Submitted November 10, 1988; accepted January 3, 1990)

Abstract: Phosphorylation is a major post-translational regulatory mechanism and plays a key role in transducing
signals in various cellular processes. The role of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation in regulating
the activities of a multiprotein DNA polymerase α complex was examined. Treatment of HeLa cell nuclei
with DNA polymerase α with calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase resulted in the inactivation of DNA poly-
merase α and DNA primase but had no effect on deoxyribonuclease activity. A protein kinase co-purified
with the multiprotein DNA polymerase α and was partially purified from HeLa cells. The par-
tially purified kinase was active in phosphorylating DNA polymerase α and associated histones as
activities substrates. This study demonstrates that phosphorylation and dephosphorylation may modify
the activities of DNA replicative enzymes and suggests a role for specific phosphatases and kinases in this pro-
cess.

Cell proliferation is a tightly regulated process in
normal cells. Abnormal cell proliferation is the hall-
mark of the tumorigenic phenotype and is a result of
relaxation of such controls. Many environ-
mental signals such as cell to cell contact or extracel-
lular growth factors exert their effects by regulating
cell proliferation. The ability of signal cells to re-
spond to extracellular or mitogenic signals depends
on the capacity of the cells to couple primary prolif-
eration signals to the processes of DNA synthesis and
cell cycle control. It is recognized that phosphoryla-
tion plays a central part in the transduction of
signals within the cell, particularly however,
that relates to its triggers to DNA synthesis.

DNA polymerase α (pol α) is the enzyme that ini-
tiates DNA replication in eukaryotes [1]. Pol α
forms a multiprotein complex with primase and other
unidentified proteins [2, 3]. The pol α complex
functions to synthesize short RNA primers on single-
stranded DNA templates, which are subsequently elon-
gated by the replicative DNA polymerases [4]. It has
been shown that pol α is stimulated by ATP [5],

though pol α is stimulated by phosphorylation, it is
not known if phosphorylation and dephosphoryl-
ation modulate its activity in vivo. Further, the effects
of phosphorylation on other enzymes in DNA synthesis
have not been investigated.

Pol α is similar to DNA replicating enzyme in pro-
karyotes, designated pol γ [6]. A multiprotein form of
pol γ, animal cells [7, 8], has also been isolated from HeLa
cells [9], which includes cofactor proteins for pol α
that may have a role in DNA replication.

In this report, a presentation on the effects of
dephosphorylation on the various enzymatic activ-
ities associated with pol α and the partial purification
of the kinase that phosphorylates pol α are reported.
The results demonstrate that phosphorylation and de-
phosphorylation can modify the activities of DNA re-
plicative enzymes and suggest a role for specific
phosphatases and kinases in this process.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

HeLa cell nuclei were prepared as described [10]. Calf
intestinal alkaline phosphatase (CIAP) was obtained from
Sigma Chemical Co. Part A protein kinase assay buffer
was composed of 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 2 mM DTT,
1 mM EGTA, and 0.1% β-mercaptoethanol.

RESULTS

Effect of Dephosphorylation on DNA Polymerase α Activity
and Associated Activities

Treatment of HeLa cell nuclei with CIAP resulted in
the inactivation of DNA polymerase α activity (Figure 1A).
The effect of CIAP was concentration dependent, with a
half maximal inhibition observed at approximately 0.2 U/
nucleus (data not shown). Dephosphorylation of DNA poly-
merase α also inactivated DNA primase activity (Figure 1B).
However, deoxyribonuclease I activity was unaffected by
CIAP treatment (Figure 1C).

(Figure 1 would be here)

Partial Purification of the Kinase Associated with DNA Polymerase α

A multiprotein complex containing DNA polymerase α
was partially purified from HeLa cell nuclei by a pro-
cedure similar to that described previously [9]. The par-
tially purified complex was then subjected to ion ex-
change chromatography on DEAE-Sepharose. Fractions
eluted with increasing concentrations of NaCl were as-
sayed for kinase activity using DNA polymerase α as a
substrate (Figure 2A). Kinase activity co-distributed
with DNA polymerase α in the eluting fractions.

(Figure 2 would be here)

DISCUSSION

The results presented here demonstrate that phos-
phorylation and dephosphorylation can modify the ac-
tivities of DNA replicative enzymes. The inactivation
of DNA polymerase α and DNA primase by CIAP sug-
gests that phosphorylation plays a role in regulating
the activities of these enzymes in vivo. Further, the par-
tial purification of a kinase that phosphorylates DNA poly-
merase α suggests that this enzyme may be regulated
by phosphorylation in a manner similar to other cellu-
lar proteins.



*To whom reprint requests should be addressed.