Isochromosome 12p in non-seminoma cell lines: karyologic amplification
of c-ki-ras, without point-mutational activation

Ethan Dmitrovsky¹, V.V. Murty¹, Denise Moy¹, Wilson H. Miller Jr.¹, David Janus¹²,
Anthony P. Albino³, Felipe Samaniego¹, George Bosl³ & R.S.K. Chaganti²

'The Genitourinary Solid Tumor Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Hospital; ¹Immunology Program,
Sloan-Kettering Institute; ²The Laboratory of Cancer Genetics and Cytogenetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Cornell
University Medical College, New York, New York 10021.

We examined eight human germ cell cancer lines
(GCCLs) for cytogenetic abnormalities and found an iso-
chromosome 12p (i12p), marker in all seven male non-
seminoma GCCLs, but not in the single female
teratocarcinoma cell. Southern blot analysis of these
cell lines increased copy number for c-ki-ras, a
gene located on 12p, in all the male GCCLs. The com-
parison of Southern blot analysis for a restriction frag-
ment length polymorphism (RFLP) probe localized to
12p to a probe for intl, which maps to 12q, indicates
that the increased copy number for c-ki-ras is primarily
from the greater numbers of 12p relative to 12q.
Although Northern analysis revealed enhanced mRNA
expression for c-ki-ras in the GCCLs with i12p,
hybridization of specific end-labeled oligonucleotides to
the polymerase chain reaction products of c-ki-ras
codons 12, 13, or 61 did not identify sequence mutations
of these codons in these cells. Thus, c-ki-ras activating
through point mutation is an infrequent event in GCCLs.
These data further suggest that increased 12p copy
number is a common event in the transformation process
leading to male germ cell cancer. We conclude that deter-
mination of i12p copy number by cytogenetic analysis or
Southern blotting is useful in the diagnosis of human
germ cell cancer.

embryonal cancers (Wang et al., 1987), suggesting that
c-ki-ras activation might represent one step in the
transformation process of human germ cell. Our
results reported here show that all the male GCCLs we
examined had one or more copies of an i12p and
increased copies of c-ki-ras, primarily on the basis of
the increased copies of 12p. Although enhanced expres-
sion of c-ki-ras was found in those GCCLs with an
i12p, pointmutational activation of c-ki-ras codons
12, 13, or 61 was not found. These data indicate
that increased copy number without c-ki-ras,
point-mutation is a common event in non-seminoma
germ cell cancer. These data also suggest that determi-
nation of the 12p copy number is an important aspect
of the diagnostic evaluation of germ cell cancer.

Results
12p copy number

We performed a cytogenetic analysis and 12p copy
number changes affecting chromosomes 11 and 10
in eight human GCCLs at generations 1 and 2
structural details detailed in a related the numerical and
it has this correlation. A summary of these metaphases
appear in Table 1. The i12p was found in all seven male
GCCLs (HSC-4, HSC-4.1, JW613, NSC-37, NSC-78,
NSC-80, and NSC-91), but not in the single female
teratocarcinoma cell line (NCCIT).

Southern blot analysis for 12p copy number was per-
formed on DNA from these GCCLs. The results of this
analysis are shown in Figure 2. As expected, the
female teratocarcinoma cell line (NCCIT) had two copies
of the 12p region. All seven male GCCLs had an increased
number of copies of 12p compared to NCCIT.

Figure 3 shows a comparison of Southern blot analysis
for a restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)
probe localized to 12p with a probe for intl, which maps
to 12q. The ratio of the intensity of hybridization to
the 12p probe compared to the intl probe was increased in
all male GCCLs with i12p. This indicates that the
increased copy number for c-ki-ras is primarily from the
greater numbers of 12p relative to 12q.

c-ki-ras sequence analysis

To determine whether point mutations were present in
the coding sequences of c-ki-ras, we amplified DNA
from each GCCL by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
using oligonucleotide primers specific for codons 12, 13,
and 61. The PCR products were hybridized to end-labeled
oligonucleotides corresponding to the wild-type and mutant
sequences of these codons. Figure 4 shows the results of
this analysis. No mutations were detected in any of the
GCCLs examined.

Discussion

The i12p is a common cytogenetic abnormality in non-
seminoma germ cell tumors (Stein et al., 1983). The
increased copy number of c-ki-ras, which is located on
12p, suggests that amplification of this oncogene may
play a role in the pathogenesis of these tumors. Although
mutations in c-ki-ras have been found in some human