Kidney International, Vol. 42 (1992/2), pp. 300–307

Altered membrane ionic permeability in a rat model of chronic renal failure

ROGER D. LONDON, MICHAEL S. LIPKOWITZ, and RUTH G. ABRAMSON

Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, USA

Altered membranous permeability in a rat model of chronic renal
failure. Altered concentrations of intracellular adenosine 3′,5′-cyclic
phosphate (cAMP) are associated with increased membrane ionic
permeability in diverse tissues. To determine if chronic endogenous
alterations in cAMP concentrations could affect membranous
membrane permeabilities, renal cortical brush border membrane ( BBMV )
preparations and red blood cells were obtained from a model of
chronic renal failure, the 5/6 nephrectomy rat. Relative
membrane permeability for Na+, K+, Cl−, and Ca2+ using the
recent probe 3,3′-dipropylthiadicarbocyanine iodide (JC-54)-51.
These studies revealed that BBMV cAMP concentrations and RBC
cAMP concentrations are increased along with relative cAMP influx. In
the same animals relative ionic chloride permeability (PNa/PK) was
increased in both BBMV and red blood cells; PCl/PRBC
PNa/PK was not affected. This selective change in permeability results
in a significant increase in intracellular Cl− concentration, the
extent magnitude to stimulate Na+-dependent glutamine transport
was unchanged. The effect of cAMP on membrane permeability in this
model of chronic renal failure was not delayed disposition or the inward
movement of Na+ and Cl-. Relative ionic chloride permeability (PCl/PRBC)
concentration or relative adenosine 3′,5′-cyclic AMP concentration
were altered by acute administration of parathyroid hormone. The
BBMV preparations from kidneys of uninephrectomized rats treated with a
chronic dose of cAMP analog, 8-(4-hydroxyethyl)-1-methyl-adenine
(HEMA), prepared for relative ionic permeability analysis. Relative
ionic chloride permeability (PCl/PRBC) was increased in red blood cells
from these animals when compared to control animals. These results
suggest that alterations in membrane ionic permeability may contribute
to the pathophysiology of chronic renal failure.

Introduction

Chronic renal failure is associated with a variety of metabolic
abnormalities, including secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 1 , 2 ) and
normochromic anemia (3). Secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients
with uremia is thought to be caused by decreased plasma calcium
concentrations and elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentrations.
However, the mechanisms responsible for these alterations are not fully
understood. It has been suggested that impaired renal clearance of PTH
may contribute to the elevation of circulating PTH levels (4). In addition,
the anemia of uremia may be due to decreased erythropoietin production
(5).

RBC ghosts and RBC cAMP concentrations are both increased in
untreated uremic humans; after treatment with peritoneal
dialysis both are indistinguishable from those in normal volun-
teers (9). Based on the fact that red blood cells are accompanied by
elevated plasma concentrations of several hormones that act
via adenylate cyclase [PTH, norepinephrine, glucagon, and
ACTH] (10–13), it was postulated that an increase in relative
ionic chloride permeability might not be confined to the red cell,
but rather might represent a more global change in membrane
permeability in chronic renal failure. Since intracellular chloro-
side activity is at or above electrochemical equilibrium in
diverse tissues [ 1 , 7 , 14 ], a selective increase in relative
ionic chloride permeability would depolarize cells [ 1 , 3 ]. If
such were the case, the resultant perturbations in cell function
(that is, transport and electrical signaling) could be responsible,
at least in part, for a number of observed manifestations of renal
failure.

The present studies were designed to determine whether an
increase in membrane ionic permeability exists in a closer
approximation to man: chronic renal failure induced in rats through
a 5/6 nephrectomy. Our observations indicate that the relative
permeability for Cl− is increased in both BBMV and red blood cells
in this rat model of chronic renal failure. Furthermore, we have
observed that administration of cAMP analogs to uninephrectomized
rats increases relative ionic chloride permeability in red blood cells.

Methods

Animals

Male Sprague-Dawley rats (Charles River Breeders, Wilmington, MA)
weighing 250 to 350 g were used in all experiments. Chronic renal
failure was induced by a 5/6 nephrectomy as previously described (15).
Briefly, the left kidney was removed completely, and two-thirds of the
right kidney was excised. Sham-operated control animals underwent
the same surgical procedure without removal of renal tissue.

Materials and Methods
(Continued on page 302)



Kidney International, Vol. 42 (1992/2), pp. 300–307 (Continued)

Altered membrane ionic permeability in a rat model of chronic renal failure

Animals were allowed to recover for 4 weeks before being used in
experiments. Some animals were treated with HEMA (Sigma, St. Louis,
MO) at a dose of 10 mg/kg per day by intraperitoneal injection for 2
weeks prior to sacrifice. All procedures involving animals were approved
by the Animal Care and Use Committee of Mount Sinai School of
Medicine.

Membrane Preparation

BBMV preparations were obtained from renal cortical homogenates as
previously described (16). Briefly, kidneys were homogenized in 30 vol
of buffered sucrose solution (0.25 M sucrose, 1 mM Tris, pH 7.4)
containing protease inhibitors. The homogenate was centrifuged at 500 g
for 10 min, and the supernatant was recentrifuged at 100,000 g for 30
min. The pellet containing BBMV was resuspended in buffered sucrose
solution.

Red blood cells were obtained from whole blood collected into heparinized
tubes. Red blood cell ghosts were prepared by hypotonic lysis as previously
described (17). Briefly, red blood cells were suspended in a small volume
of isotonic buffer and then lysed by adding an equal volume of distilled
water. The resulting suspension was centrifuged at 100,000 g for 30 min,
and the pellet containing red blood cell ghosts was resuspended in buffered
sucrose solution.

cAMP Measurements

Intracellular cAMP concentrations were measured in BBMV and red
blood cell ghost preparations by radioimmunoassay (RIA) as previously
described (18). Briefly, membranes were incubated in buffer containing 5
mM Tris, pH 7.4, 10 mM MgCl2, and 0.1% bovine serum albumin for
30 min at 37°C. The incubation was stopped by adding ice-cold RIA buffer.
Samples were then assayed for cAMP using a commercially available kit
(DuPont, Wilmington, DE).

Relative Ionic Permeability Measurements

Relative ionic permeability measurements were performed on BBMV and
red blood cell ghosts as previously described (19). Briefly, membranes
were suspended in buffered sucrose solution containing 10−6 M JC-54-51.
The fluorescence intensity of the dye was measured at excitation wavelengths
of 530 nm and emission wavelengths of 580 nm using a spectrofluorometer.
Relative ionic permeability coefficients (PNa, PK, PCl, PCa) were calculated
from the ratio of JC-54-51 fluorescence intensities in the presence and
absence of the respective ion.

Statistical Analysis

Data are expressed as mean ± SEM. Statistical significance was determined
by Student’s t test. A p value less than 0.05 was considered significant.

Results

(Continued on page 303)



Kidney International, Vol. 42 (1992/2), pp. 300–307 (Continued)

Altered membrane ionic permeability in a rat model of chronic renal failure

Figure 1. Effect of 5/6 nephrectomy on relative membrane ionic
permeability coefficients in BBMV and red blood cell ghosts. Values are
mean ± SEM for six to eight animals per group. * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01.

Figure 2. Effect of HEMA administration on relative membrane ionic
permeability coefficients in red blood cell ghosts. Values are mean ± SEM
for four to six animals per group. * p < 0.05.

Figure 3. Summary of observations.



(Image is not transcribable)



Kidney International, Vol. 42 (1992/2), pp. 300–307 (Continued)

References

1.  Evans, R. G., and Wesson, J. D. Secondary hyperparathyroidism in
    chronic renal failure. Kidney Int. Suppl. 1986; 2: S54-S58.
2.  Silverman, H. L., and O’Malley, M. P. Parathyroid hormone metabolism
    in