MOLECULAR AND CELLULAR BIOLOGY, Apr. 1991, p. 2084-2012
0270-7354/91/04/02084$02.00
Copyright © 1991, American Society for Microbiology

Point Mutations Upstream of the Yeast ADH2 Poly(A) Site Significantly Reduce the Efficiency of 3'-End Formation

LINDA E. HYMAN, STEPHANIE H. SEILER*, JOHN WOHRISKEY*, AND CLAIRE L. MOORE*
Department of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts 02111-1800
Received 10 December 1990/Accepted 11 January 1991

The sequences directing formation of mRNA 3' ends in Saccharomyces cerevisiae are not well defined. This is in contrast to the situation in higher eukaryotes, where such sequences are known to be crucial to proper 3'-end formation. The UAUAAA hexameric motif is found upstream of the poly(A) site in some but not all yeast genes. One of these is the gene coding for alcohol dehydrogenase, ADH1. Deletion or a double point mutation of the UAUAAA sequence has a small effect on the efficiency of transcription, and in contrast to the mammalian system, it is most likely not operating as a major processing signal in the yeast cell. However, we have isolated mutations that result in early termination, polyadenylation, or both. These mutations represent the first point mutations in yeast which significantly reduce the efficiency of 3'-end formation.

The formation of the 3' ends of eukaryotic mRNA involves several steps, including termination of transcrip-
tion, cleavage of precursor RNA, and addition of poly(A). In
higher eukaryotes, it is known that termination of transcrip-
tion by RNA polymerase II occurs downstream from the end
of the mature mRNA. The initial transcript is produced by cleavage of the primary transcript and subsequent addition of about 20 nucleotides for review, see references 30 and 36]. The relationship between
termination of transcription and RNA processing is not well
understood, although it is apparent that termination requires
RNA-binding proteins (17, 22, 44). Polyadenylation occurs
from a short, conserved UAUAAA sequence in the precur-
sor mRNA, in which seven residues are cleaved to generate
the poly(A) tail (5, 9, 11, 14, 30). The UAUAAA signal is
required for efficient cleavage and polyadenylation in mam-
malian cells (28, 30, 37).

In contrast to the situation in higher eukaryotes, little is
known about the sequences involved in mRNA 3'-end for-
mation in yeast. It has been suggested that termination of
transcription occurs by a “torpedoing” mechanism (16),
which results from transcription through a centromere (for ex-
ample, see reference 42). An autonomously replicating sequence
(ARS) placed between the end of the gene and the centromere is
stabilized, suggesting that transcription termination is
linked to ARS sequences (35). However, no clear experi-
ments support this hypothesis (35). However, these exper-
iments do not address the relationship between the process-
ing of transcripts and termination of transcription, and this
issue remains elusive.

In this report, we describe a new series of yeast cDC12
mutants that are defective in 3'-end formation. These muta-
tions map close to the end of the ADH2 gene (encoding alco-
hol dehydrogenase) and result in early termination, poly-
adenylation, or both. We find that point mutations upstream
of the poly(A) signal sequence significantly reduce the effi-
ciency of 3'-end formation.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Yeast Strains and Media. The yeast strains used in this study
are listed in Table 1. They are all derived from strain
DY98, which is a cDC12 strain (34). cDC12 mutants are
temperature-sensitive for nuclear division and accumulate
polynucleotides with 3'-ends that are not properly pro-
cessed (10).

Isolation of Mutants. The cDC12-178 mutant was isolated
from a DY98 strain after UV mutagenesis. Mutagenized cells
were grown in minimal medium containing glucose as the sole
carbon source, and nonviable segregants were selected by
growing them at 36°C in rich medium (YPD).

Genetic Analysis. The cDC12-178 mutant was crossed with
DY98 to determine its genetic linkage. Heterozygous di-
ploids were then sporulated, and the resulting tetrads were
analyzed for segregation of the cDC12 marker.

DNA Sequencing. Genomic DNA from the cDC12-178 mu-
tant was isolated by standard methods (3). The ADH2 gene
was amplified by PCR using primers based on the published
ADH2 sequence (40). The PCR product was sequenced di-
rectly using a double-stranded template sequencing kit
(U.S. Biochemicals) with internal primers designed to span
the region of the mutation.

RESULTS

Isolation and Genetic Analysis of cDC12 Mutants Defective in 3'-End Formation

We isolated a new temperature-sensitive mutant, cDC12-178,
which is defective in mRNA 3'-end formation. This mutant
was isolated from a DY98 strain after UV mutagenesis. The
cDC12-178 mutation was linked to the centromere on chromosome 1 (4 map units) and cosegregates with cDC12 (data not shown).

Characterization of the cDC12-178 Mutation

DNA sequencing revealed that the cDC12-178 mutant has a
double point mutation in the UAUAAA sequence upstream of
the poly(A) site of the ADH2 gene. The wild-type sequence is
5'-UAUAAAG-3'. The mutated sequence is 5'-AUAAAA-3' (Fig.
1).

Effect of Mutations in the UAUAAA Sequence on mRNA 3'-End Formation

To determine the effect of mutations in the UAUAAA se-
quence on mRNA 3'-end formation, we analyzed ADH2
mRNA from cDC12-178 mutants. We found that these mu-
tants produce transcripts that terminate prematurely and are
polyadenylated (Fig. 2).

DISCUSSION

Our results demonstrate that mutations upstream of the yeast
ADH2 poly(A) site significantly reduce the efficiency of 3'-end
formation. The cDC12-178 mutant has a double point mu-
tation in the UAUAAA sequence, which results in early ter-
mination and polyadenylation. These mutations represent the
first point mutations in yeast that significantly reduce the ef-
ficiency of 3'-end formation.

The role of the UAUAAA sequence in mRNA 3'-end for-
mation is not well understood in yeast. In contrast to the
mammalian system, where the UAUAAA sequence is required
for efficient cleavage and polyadenylation (28, 30, 37), it
appears that the UAUAAA sequence in yeast may play a less
critical role. However, our results suggest that the UAUAAA
sequence is important for proper mRNA 3'-end formation in
yeast.

The mechanism by which mutations in the UAUAAA se-
quence lead to early termination and polyadenylation is un-
clear. It is possible that the UAUAAA sequence serves as a
signal for RNA processing machinery, or it may be involved
in recruiting RNA polymerase II to the site of transcrip-
tion termination. Further studies are needed to elucidate the
mechanism by which mutations in the UAUAAA sequence af-
fect mRNA 3'-end formation in yeast.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We thank [names removed for brevity] for their assistance with this work.

This research was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health (GM39841 and GM39842).

REFERENCES

[References omitted for brevity]