MOLECULAR AND CELLULAR BIOLOGY, Jan. 1993, p. 393-390

Vol. 13, No. 1

Copyright © 1993, American Society for Microbiology

Sequence-Specific Transcriptional Activation by Myc and Repression by Max

CHIRAG AMIN,¹² ANDREW J. WAGNER,¹³ AND NISSIM HAY¹,⁴*

'The Ben May Institute, Department of Molecular Genetics and Cell Biology; ²Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637

Received 8 July 1992/Returned for modification 25 August 1992/Accepted 9 October 1992

The c-myc oncogene, which is required for cellular proliferation, resembles in its structure a growing number of transcription factors. However, the mechanism of its action in vivo is not yet clear. The discovery of the specific DNA-binding site for Myc and its heterodimeric partner, Max, provided tools enabled the use of direct experiments to elucidate how Myc functions in vivo and how this function is modulated by Max. Here we demonstrate that exogenously expressed Myc is capable of activating transcription in vivo through its specific DNA-binding site. Moreover, transcriptional activation by Myc requires the integrity of the helix-loop-helix and leucine zipper dimerization motifs located in the carboxyterminal portion of the protein, as well as the regions involved in interactions with other Myc family proteins. In contrast to Myc, exogenously expressed Max elicited transcriptional repression and blocked transcriptional activity by Myc through same DNA-binding site. Our results suggest a functional antagonism between Myc and Max which is mediated by their relative levels in the cells. A model for the activity of Myc and Max in vivo is presented.

The c-myc gene encodes a short-lived nuclear phosphor protein that is implicated in normal cell growth and cellular differentiation (for reviews see ref erences 1, 2, 3, 4). Deregulation of c-myc expression is associated with the genesis of diverse types of tumors, and enforced high levels of c-myc expression elicit transforma tion in cultured cells (for references see 5, 6, 7). In addition, c-myc has been shown to be involved in apoptosis (8, 9), chromosome segregation (10, 11), and immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangement (12, 13). The Myc protein is a DNA-binding transcription factor (14, 15) that can activate the expression of certain genes (16, 17, 18) and repress the expression of others (19, 20).

The Myc protein interacts with a number of other proteins, including the histone acetyltransferase GABP-α (21), the nuclear matrix protein HJ-1 (22), and its heterodimeric partner Max (23, 24). The interaction between Myc and Max is required for DNA binding by Myc (25, 26). It has been shown that Max can bind to DNA as a homodimer (27) and that this homodimeric form of Max represses transcription (28).

In an attempt to further understand the function of Myc and Max in vivo, we have investigated the effects of exogenously expressed Myc and Max on transcription. We found that Myc is capable of activating transcription in vivo through its specific DNA-binding site, whereas Max represses transcription through the same site. Moreover, we observed that Max can block transcriptional activation by Myc.

However, by the addition of Max, the specific heterodimer ization partner of Myc, which was identified on the basis of its similarity to Myc in a b-ALL L2 clone (8), (9).

Unlike Myc, Max can readily form homodimers that bind to DNA with low affinity (27). The consensus sequence of 5' GALA 3' is sufficient for the specific DNA-binding domain of Myc (25, 26). However, it is not clear how Myc functions in vivo.

We have used a system in which Myc and Max are expressed from the HSV thymidine kinase promoter to investigate the function of these proteins in vivo. This system allows us to control the levels of Myc and Max expression and to observe their effects on transcription.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

cDNA constructs. The full-length cDNA clones encoding Myc and Max were obtained from the ATCC (Myc, ATCC 37602; Max, ATCC 37604). These cDNAs were inserted into the pCMV vector (29) using standard molecular cloning techniques.

Cell culture. NIH 3T3 cells were cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and antibiotics.

Transfections. Cells were transfected by electroporation as described previously (30). Briefly, 2 x 10^6 cells were resuspended in 250 µl of PBS containing 20 µg of plasmid DNA. The cells were then pulsed at 280 V for 1 ms using a Bio-Rad Gene Pulser. After pulsing, the cells were plated in 10 cm dishes and incubated overnight.

Luciferase assays. A luciferase reporter construct was generated by inserting the Myc/Max binding site (5' GALA 3') into the pGL2 vector (Promega). The plasmid DNA containing the luciferase reporter construct was transfected into NIH 3T3 cells along with plasmids encoding Myc and Max. Luciferase activity was measured as described previously (30).

Western blotting. Cell lysates were prepared by washing the cells with PBS and resuspending them in lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1% NP-40, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). Protein concentrations were determined by the Bradford method (31). Equal amounts of protein (20 µg) were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. The membranes were probed with antibodies against Myc and Max.

RESULTS

Myc activates transcription in vivo through its specific DNA-binding site. To investigate the function of Myc in vivo, we transfected NIH 3T3 cells with a plasmid encoding Myc and a luciferase reporter construct containing the Myc/Max binding site (5' GALA 3'). As shown in Figure 1A, expression of Myc resulted in a significant increase in luciferase activity compared to control cells. This result indicates that Myc is capable of activating transcription in vivo through its specific DNA-binding site.

Max represses transcription through the same DNA-binding site. To determine whether Max can also bind to the Myc/Max binding site and affect transcription, we transfected NIH 3T3 cells with a plasmid encoding Max and the luciferase reporter construct. As shown in Figure 1B, expression of Max resulted in a significant decrease in luciferase activity compared to control cells. This result indicates that Max represses transcription through the same DNA-binding site.

Max can block transcriptional activation by Myc. To investigate whether Max can block transcriptional activation by Myc, we transfected NIH 3T3 cells with plasmids encoding both Myc and Max and the luciferase reporter construct. As shown in Figure 1C, expression of both Myc and Max resulted in a decrease in luciferase activity compared to cells expressing only Myc. This result indicates that Max can block transcriptional activation by Myc through the same DNA-binding site.

DISCUSSION

Our results demonstrate that Myc is capable of activating transcription in vivo through its specific DNA-binding site, whereas Max represses transcription through the same site. Moreover, we observed that Max can block transcriptional activation by Myc. These findings suggest that Myc and Max function as antagonists in regulating gene expression.

The ability of Myc to activate transcription in vivo through its specific DNA-binding site is consistent with previous studies (16, 17, 18). The fact that Max represses transcription through the same site suggests that Max may compete with Myc for binding to DNA or that Max may recruit transcriptional repressors to the Myc/Max binding site.

The observation that Max can block transcriptional activation by Myc is consistent with the finding that Max can bind to DNA as a homodimer and that this homodimeric form of Max represses transcription (27, 28). It is possible that Max forms homodimers in vivo and competes with Myc for binding to DNA, thereby blocking transcriptional activation by Myc.

Our results provide further evidence that Myc and Max function as antagonists in regulating gene expression. The relative levels of Myc and Max may determine whether a particular gene is activated or repressed.