65

Maximal Twitch Tension in Intact
Length-Clamped Ferret Papillary Muscles
Evoked by Modified Posttetanic
Potentiation

Ferdinand Urthaler, Alfred A. Walker, David N.S. Reeves, and Lloyd L. Hefner

A modified test of posttetanic potentiation achieved with a brief episode of rapid pacing followed
by a 0.5-second pause (RPP) was used to examine the force-frequency relationship in isolated ferret right
ventricular papillary muscles. Maximal RPP responses were examined under length-clamped conditions
and compared with the steady-state tensions at which further increases in [Ca++]i did not further
increase force and the tensions recorded at the point of saturation of force when similarly
length-clamped muscles were subjected to caffeine-induced tetanization. The results show that the
tetanus maximal tension is similar to the peak RPP tension, suggesting that RPP represents a state observed in
intact single skeletal muscle fibers. The study also shows that the beat-to-beat decay of the potentiated
contraction is exponential. While the amount of the transient fractional beat-to-beat decay is a function
of [Ca++]i, it is not influenced by length. During the course of potentiation, the ratio of the tension
any heat divided by that of the previous beat is a constant, called (v). With certain assumptions,
it is shown that (v) is a measure of the fraction of calcium released from the sarcoplasmic
reticulum in each beat and, in the steady state, the fraction of activator calcium that comes from the
sarcoplasmic reticulum. The amount of Ca++i is 25%, 40%, and 65% when [Ca++]i is 1.25, 2.50, and
5.0 mM respectively. Thus, at 1.25 mM [Ca++]i, some two thirds of the total calcium required to
activate the myofilaments comes from the extracellular compartment during excitation and only one
third is contributed by release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. In the region of maximal tension
overlap, RPP force-length curves are remarkably shallow and almost indistinguishable from the
sarcomere length-tension relation observed in skinned single cardiac cells. Tetanus plateau tensions
are significantly smaller than RPP forces at any given length, and the slope of the tetanus force-length curves
is greater than that obtained with RPP. Thus, and by exclusion, we also suggest that caffeine may exert
significant downstream inhibitory effects. (Circulation Research 1986;58:65-74)

myofilatic free calcium concentration, [Ca++]i,
wasoles the most important and relevant of
the intracellular signals that control contraction
in cardiac muscle. The release of Ca++i from
sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) is a major mech-
anism by which contractile force is regulated
during systole. Evidence suggests that SR Ca++i
release is also involved in the generation of
posttetanic potentiation (PTP).

PTP is an increase in contractile force that
occurs after a train of electrical stimulation
of cardiac muscle. The magnitude and duration
of PTP are dependent on several factors, includ-
ing stimulus frequency, pulse length, and inter-
val between trains.1-3 PTP has been shown to
be associated with an increase in the sensitivity
of contractile proteins to Ca++i.4-6

In the present study, we have used a modified test
of posttetanic potentiation achieved with a brief
episode of rapid pacing followed by a 0.5-second
pause (RPP) to examine the force-frequency
relationship in isolated ferret right ventricular
papillary muscles. Ferret papillary muscles are
suitable for this type of study because they retain
their physiological characteristics when isolated
and mounted on an experimental apparatus.7

Methods

Muscle Preparation

Right ventricular papillary muscles were dis-
sected from adult ferrets (Mustela putorius furo)
weighing 250 to 350 g. The animals were anesthe-
tized with pentobarbital sodium (45 mg/kg ip), and
the heart was excised and placed in a cold, oxygen-
ated physiological salt solution. Papillary muscles
were pinned out on a Sylgard dish containing the
salt solution and superfused at 25°C.

Experimental Solutions

The physiological salt solution had the following
composition (in mM): NaCl, 138; KCl, 5.4; CaCl2,
1.8; MgCl2, 1.0; NaHCO3, 25; KH2PO4, 1.8;
glucose, 5.5; and EDTA, 0.01. The pH was ad-
justed to 7.4 with NaOH.

Experimental Protocol

Papillary muscles were pinned out on a force
transducer (Kistler Instrument Corp., Winterthur,
Switzerland) and allowed to equilibrate for at least
30 minutes before the start of the experiment. The
muscles were superfused with physiological salt
solution throughout the experiment. After an initial
equilibration period, the muscles were stimulated
at a frequency of 1 Hz for 5 minutes. Then, the
stimulation frequency was increased to 10 Hz for
10 seconds, followed by a 0.5-second pause (RPP).
The force-frequency relationship was determined by
stimulating the muscles at frequencies ranging from
0.1 to 20 Hz. The maximal RPP tension was de-
termined at each frequency.

