THE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY
Vol. 41 No. 21, November 8, 1988 pp. 1831-1836
© 1988 The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

Intracellular Trafficking of Cell Surface Sialoglycoconjugates*

Jonathan S. Reichner, Sidney W. Whiteheart, and Gerald W. Hart

From the Department of Biological Chemistry, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21905

Recent reports have suggested that the majority of the molecular traffic through the Golgi apparatus is comprised of newly synthesized glycoproteins and glycolipids. To evaluate the importance of this recycling pathway in greater detail, we examined the internalization and recycling of cell surface glycoconjugates on EL4 cells, a murine T-cell lymphoma, using sialic acids as covalent markers. Sialic acids were removed from the surface of living cells by exhaustive treatment with neuraminidase (NK), resulting in the removal primarily from glycoproteins (79%), shown here to be a small amount from glycosphingolipids. Cells were re-cultured at 37°C over time and monitored for the reappearance of the cell surface sialic acids by a high-resolution liquid chromatography analysis of the thio-sialic acid assay for sialic acids. The rehybridization of the cell surface was found to be due to the incorporation of newly synthesized glycoproteins, as evidenced by the presence of 2'-sialyl-L-fucose, an unusual sugar moiety characteristic of a subset of glycoconjugates containing the bulk of the sialic acid residues. A specialized membrane domain, termed the sialoglycoconjugate-containing compartment for oligosaccharide processing, representing an enrichment area found for K562 cells, a human erythroleukemia cell line, was identified by immunofluorescence using the monoclonal antibody 771. This antibody reacts specifically with a glycoprotein of ~80,000 daltons, which is present in the Golgi apparatus and in the sialoglycoconjugate-containing compartment. The glycoprotein recognized by 771 has been purified to homogeneity and characterized as a lysosomal membrane protein type 1 (LMP1). The incorporation of 35S-labeled glycoproteins into the sialoglycoconjugate-containing compartment was inhibited by colchicine, suggesting that microtubule function is required for this process.

The outward movement of newly synthesized proteins along the biosynthetic pathway and the inward movement as molecules collected from the extracellular environment are well established. A number of studies have implicated the *trans*-Golgi network as a common compartment through which newly synthesized as well as internalized glycoproteins are sorted (Farquhar, 1985; Fischer and Plattner, 1985; Griffiths et al., 1985; Herzog, 1984; Ramagori and Herzog, 1985; von Conte et al., 1986; Yamashiro et al., 1984).

The internalization of plasma membrane glycoproteins and their subsequent return to the cell surface has been observed in many laboratories (reviewed in Brown et al., 1988; Pike and Cook, 1968; Ayscough, both the mechanisms which mediate the internalization of cell surface glycoconjugates and the intracellular pathways they may take are unclear. For example, the ligand-induced endocytosis of some receptors has been shown to induce the return of surface glycoproteins to the cell surface after deposition of ligand at the extracellular domain (e.g., epidermal growth factor in Swiss 3T3 cells; Carpenter et al., 1984). It is also clear that some of the receptors for transferrin and ovalbumin bind to a soluble component, apotransferrin or free ovalbumin, respectively (Caput et al., 1978; Herzberger et al., 1978), and are internalized via endocytosis (Piper et al., 1978). The recycling of the transferrin receptor (also known as the p90 antigen) is dependent on microtubules (Schweifader et al., 1985; Titus et al., 1985) and requires a pH-dependent sorting step in the *trans*-Golgi network (Sebastiao et al., 1987).

In this study, we have used sialic acids as covalent markers to examine the internalization and recycling of cell surface glycoconjugates on EL4 cells. Sialic acids are abundant on glycoproteins and glycolipids and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including cell-cell interactions (Rapoport et al., 1973; Marie et al., 1976) and immune recognition (Paulson et al., 1978). The removal of sialic acids from the surface of living cells results in altered cell-cell interactions and can affect the ability of cells to bind to lectins (Rapoport et al., 1973; Marie et al., 1976).