Biochem. J. (1988) 256, 13–21 (Printed in Great Britain) 13

Identification of a surface membrane proton-translocating ATPase
in promastigotes of the parasitic protozoan Leishmania donovani

DAN ZILBERSTEIN* and Dennis M. DWYER†
*Department of Biology, Technion—Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000, Israel, and
†Cellular and Molecular Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892, U.S.A.

ATPase activities were measured in surface membranes and mitochondria isolated from promastigotes of
the parasitic protozoan Leishmania donovani. The two enzymes were differentiated on the basis of pH
optima, inhibitor sensitivity and immunological methods. The surface-membrane (SM) ATPase had
an activity of 100 nmol/min per mg of protein, which was optimal at pH 6.5. The enzyme was Mg2+-
dependent, partially inhibited by Ca2+, and unaffected by Na+ or K+. The SM-ATPase was inhibited by
orthovanadate, N-(cyclohexyl)ethylcarbodiimide and N-ethylmaleimide [IC50 (concentration causing half-
maximal inhibition) 7.5, 23 and 520 μM respectively]. It was unaffected by ouabain, digitoxin or
oligomycin. The Km of ATP was 1.4 μM and a Vmax of 225 nmol/min per mg of protein.
Moreover, fine-structure cytochemical results demonstrated that the SM-ATPase was localized to the
cytoplasmic lamina of the parasite SM membrane as derived from the isolation of SM-derived vesicles. These
were used to demonstrate the proton-pumping capacity of the SM-ATPase. Cumulatively, these results
constitute the first demonstration of a surface-membrane proton-translocating ATPase in a parasitic
protozoan.

INTRODUCTION

Species of the parasitic protozoan Leishmania are the
cause of a wide variety of human cutaneous,
mucocutaneous and visceral diseases. These parasites
have a digenetic life cycle which involves developmental
stages residing in flagellate promastigotes, i.e. extra-
cellularly replicated promastigotes found within the alimen-
tary tract of their sandy vector and as obligate
intracellular amastigotes found within secondary host
macrophages (Cornelious, 1973; Hyde, 1976). The
parasite’s survival depends on its ability to adapt to a
range of environmental conditions.

Previous studies have shown that energy metabolism
in Leishmania is unusual in several respects (Hyde
& Wilson, 1982; Reeves, 1983). For example,
Leishmania lack conventional mitochondria and rely
on glycolysis for ATP production. Furthermore, they
possess a unique tricarboxylic acid cycle which lacks
α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (Wilson et al., 1986).
Despite these differences, Leishmania have several
features in common with other eukaryotes, including
the presence of a plasma membrane H+-ATPase
(Dwyer & Gottlieb, 1981; Reeves, 1983; All-Alqati,
1986; Pederson & Caralli, 1987). As pmf drives energy transduction
processes across the Leishmania SM (Zilberstein &
Dwyer, 1985), it was anticipated that an H+-ATPase
acting as a primary proton pump should be present in the
plasma membrane of this organism. Previously, it was
suggested that the Leishmania SM might contain an
ATPase (Dwyer & Gottlieb, 1981). In the present study,
we have identified and characterized a vanadate-sensitive
Mg2+-dependent ATPase activity in the Leishmania
donovani SM. The enzyme is shown to be an H+-ATPase
with proton-pumping capacity.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Promastigote culture and membrane preparation

Leishmania donovani promastigotes (MHAS 10) were
cultured as described previously (Dwyer, 1987).
Surface membranes were isolated by a combination of
differential centrifugation and density gradient centri-
fugation. Briefly, parasites were harvested by centrifu-
gation at 500 g for 10 min, washed twice in phosphate-
buffered saline (PBS) and resuspended in PBS. The
cells were then lysed by addition of hypotonic buffer
(25 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA). After
incubation on ice for 15 min, the lysate was diluted
with an equal volume of PBS and centrifuged at 1000 g
for 10 min. The pellet containing nuclei and unlysed
cells was discarded. The supernatant was centrifuged at
20000 g for 30 min. The resulting pellet contained the
surface membranes. Mitochondria were isolated by a
modified version of the method of Racker & Dubinsky
(1961).

ATPase assay

ATPase activity was measured using an oxygen-sensitive
microelectrode system (Beckon Dickinson, Mountain
View, CA) as described previously (Dwyer, 1987).
The reaction mixture contained 25 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.4,
0.2 mM MgCl2 and the membrane preparation. Oxygen
consumption was monitored at 37°C. Data are expressed
as nmol of phosphate consumed per min per mg of protein.

Protein determination

Protein concentrations were determined by the method
of Bradford (1976) using Bio-Rad protein reagent.

Inhibition studies

The effect of various inhibitors on ATPase activity was
determined as described previously (Dwyer, 1987).

Km and Vmax determinations

Kinetic parameters for ATP hydrolysis were determined
by measuring ATPase activity at different concentrations
of ATP (0.1–10 μM) using a coupled assay with NADH
as described by Weiner et al. (1985).

Cytochemical localization

The cytochemical localization of the SM-ATPase was
determined as described previously (Zilberstein &
Dwyer, 1985).

RESULTS

SM-ATPase activity

Surface membrane ATPase activity was detected in
Leishmania donovani promastigotes. The enzyme had a
specific activity of 100 nmol/min per mg of protein.
The ATPase activity was dependent on Mg2+ and was
partially inhibited by Ca2+. Na+ and K+ did not affect
the ATPase activity (Table 1).

Inhibition studies

The SM-ATPase was sensitive to several inhibitors
including orthovanadate, N-(cyclohexyl)ethylcarbodi-
imide and N-ethylmaleimide (Table 2). The IC50 values
for these inhibitors were 7.5, 23 and 520 μM respectively.
The enzyme was unaffected by ouabain, digitoxin or
oligomycin.

Kinetic parameters

The Km of ATP for the SM-ATPase was 1.4 μM and
the Vmax was 225 nmol/min per mg of protein (Figure 1).

Cytochemical localization

Fine-structure cytochemical results demonstrated that
the SM-ATPase was localized to the cytoplasmic lamina
of the parasite SM membrane as derived from the isolation
of SM-derived vesicles (Figure 2).

DISCUSSION

The identification of a proton-translocating ATPase in
the Leishmania SM provides further evidence for the
complexity of energy transduction processes in this
parasite. The enzyme is similar to other plasma mem-
brane H+-ATPases found in eukaryotes (Dwyer &
Gottlieb, 1981; Reeves, 1983; All-Alqati, 1986;
Pederson & Caralli, 1987). The sensitivity of the
enzyme to vanadate and N-ethylmaleimide is consistent
with its being an H+-ATPase. The localization of the
SM-ATPase to the cytoplasmic lamina suggests that it
may be involved in maintaining membrane potential or
in transporting ions across the plasma membrane.

Table 1. Effect of divalent cations on SM-ATPase activity

[TABLE]

Table 2. Effect of inhibitors on SM-ATPase activity

[TABLE]

Figure 1. ATPase kinetics

[GRAPHIC]

Figure 2. Cytochemical localization of SM-ATPase

[GRAPHIC]

REFERENCES

All-Alqati, M. S. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 13750–13754.
Bradford, M. M. (1976) Anal. Biochem. 72, 248–254.
Cornelious, W. A. (1973) Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 22, 507–514.
Dwyer, D. M. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262