TOXICOLOGY AND APPLIED PHARMACOLOGY 96, 132–139 (1988)

Altered Exocrine Pancreatic Function in Rats Treated with Nicotine

MICHAEL A. DUBICK*,† ROBBIN PALMER*, PAUL P. LAUL*, LARRY R. MORRILL*,
and MICHAEL C. GEORGAS*‡

*Enzymeology Research Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Veterans Administration Medical Center,
Martinez, California 94553, and Department of Biological Chemistry and †Medicine,
University of California, Davis, California 95616

Received January 14, 1988; accepted June 29, 1988

Altered Exocrine Pancreatic Function in Rats Treated with Nicotine. DUBICK, A.,
PALMER, R., LAUL, P. P., MORRILL, L. R., and GEORGAS, M. C. (1988). Toxicol. Appl. Pharmo-
col. 96, 132–139. The effects of nicotine were examined on exocrine pancreatic function. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received nicotine via a time-release pel-
let at a rate of 1.05 mg/day for 3 weeks. At the end of the experimental period, it was observed
that although nicotine did not affect total protein or DNA content, the activities of amylase,
trypsin, and chymotrypsin in pancreatic homogenates from nicotine-treated rats were 51.3%,
and 29.7% higher, respectively, than those of control animals. Levels of immunoreactive trypsinogen
were significantly higher in pancreatic homogenates and serum from nicotine-treated rats as
compared with controls. In addition, concentrations of mRNA encoding for pancreatic amy-
lase were elevated in the pancreas of nicotine-treated rats compared to that in controls. In
dispersed pancreatic acini isolated from nicotine-treated rats, basal secretion of amylase, trypin-
ogen, and chymotrypsin was 34.6% higher than that observed in control acini. Stimulation with CCK-
8 (100 pM), secretin (1 μM), and carbacol (7.4 μM) stimulation was also significantly higher.
These data indicate that nicotine treatment, at levels comparable to those experienced in moderate
cigarette smoking, increases the rate of digestive enzyme secretion in rat pancreas, as well as their
basal and secretagogues-induced release. © 1988 Raven Press, Inc.

Cigarette smoking is a well-recognized risk ever has not been identified, but could origi-
factor in a number of conditions including nate from polymorphonuclear leukocytes
pulmonary emphysema (Cartwright and Jaffé, (PMN), macrophages and monocytes, plate-
1978; Elliott, 1983), coronary artery dis- lets, the enteric nervous system, or plasma
ease (Hill et al., 1983), and arthritis (Siegel cells, all of which express chymotrypsinogen
et al., 1985). Although Hill et al. (1983) have (Derouet et al., 1981; Weisszonis, 1983; Jon-
attributed the increased risk of coronary dis- son et al., 1985). In addition to its role in
ease to nicotine, the specific mechanisms by digestion, evidence suggests that chymotryp-
which cigarette smoking contributes to these sinogen may also be involved in inflam-
diseases are largely unknown. It is well matory events (e.g., tissue destruction) and
established that cigarette smoke contains thou- tumor invasion (e.g., Weisszonis, 1983;
sands of chemical constituents, many of which Jonsson et al., 1985).
are toxic or carcinogenic. Nicotine, the prin- In recent years, there has been increasing
cipal psychoactive agent in cigarette smoke, interest in the effects of nicotine on various
has been shown to have a variety of physiolog- physiological processes. For example, nicoti-
ical effects, including stimulation of the adre- ne stimulates insulin release (Saito et al.,
nal glands and increased heart rate. In addi- 1984) and increases gastric acid secretion
tion, nicotine has been shown to stimulate (Kruse et al., 1986). To further investigate
the secretion of digestive enzymes from the the effects of nicotine on pancreatic function,
pancreas (Dubick et al., 1987). The source we examined the exocrine pancreatic response
of immunoreactive chymotrypsinogen in cir- to chronic nicotine treatment in rats.

MATERIALS AND METHODS
