Free Radical Biology & Medicine, Vol. 6, pp. 271-284, 1989
Printed in the U.S.A. All rights reserved.

0887-5907/89 $3.00 + 0.00
© 1989 Pergamon Press pic

Original Contribution

INTERMEDIATES IN THE AEROBIC AUTOXIDATION OF
6-HYDROXYDOPAMINE: RELATIVE IMPORTANCE UNDER DIFFERENT
REACTION CONDITIONS

PAULINE GEIS* and ALLAN J. DAVISON†

Biogenenerics Research Lab, School of Kinesiology, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6 and BC
Cancer Research Centre, 601 West 10th Ave., Vancouver, B.C., Canada V5Z 1L3

[Received 1 May 1989; Revised 16 October 1989; Re-revised 12 May 1989; Accepted 3 June 1989]

Abstract—Autoxidation of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) proceeds through a balanced network of transition
metal ions, superoxide, hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, and other species. The contribution of each to the
reaction mechanism varies dramatically depending upon which scavengers are present. The contribution of each
species is diminished when metal ions or hydroperoxides are removed. Thus, superoxide (which is
relatively unimportant when metals ion participate) dominates reactions when transition metal ions are
bound (typically at higher pH), and it becomes essential in the simulantous presence of catalase plus citrates.
Transition metal ions participate more if hydroperoxides are excluded; hydrogen peroxide becomes important if
both O2• and metal ions are excluded, and hydroxyl radicals contribute more to the reaction mechanism if both
H2O2 and O2• are excluded. Superoxide dismutase inhibited most of the reaction mechanisms: a high affinity
mechanism (13% inhibition at catalytically effective concentrations), and a low affinity mechanism (almost
complete inhibition at the highest concentrations) which depends upon both metal binding and catalytic activity.
In the presence of DETAPAC, superoxide dismutase inhibits more effectively than catalase or EDTA. Catalase
metal chelating agents inhibited strongly in the presence of superoxide dismutase. When present alone they
inhibited slightly but cumulatively (15%) when added alone; had little effect (like DETAPAC). Catalase which
elimmed slight but consistently (>5%) when added alone. Inhibitors 100% in the presence of superoxide
dismutase + DETAPAC. However, in the absence of metal ions, catalase decreased inhibition by superoxide
dismutase and EDTA. In the presence of hydroperoxides, inhibitors increased inhibition by superoxide
produced little or no (<1%) inhibition, but inhibited 30% in the presence of superoxide dismutase + DETAPAC.
The relative importance of each species is determined by a combination of several parameters: enzyme
availability, pH, metal ion concentrations, and inhibitor concentrations.

Key Words: Autoxidation, 6-hydroxydopamine, Superoxide dismutase, Hydroxyl radical, Catalase, EDTA,
Transition metals.

INTRODUCTION

6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) is a neurotoxic
compound that has been widely used to model
Parkinson’s disease in experimental animals (1–4).
The toxicity of 6-OHDA is believed to result from its
autoxidation, which generates reactive oxygen species
(ROS) that damage neuronal tissue (5–8). The autoxi-
dation of 6-OHDA has been studied extensively (9–13),
and it is now recognized that the reaction proceeds
through a complex network of transition metal ions,
superoxide, hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, and
other species.

The relative importance of each of these species in
the overall autoxidation mechanism depends upon the
reaction conditions. For example, the presence of tran-
sition metal ions can catalyze the reaction, while super-
oxide dismutase (SOD) can inhibit it by converting
superoxide to hydrogen peroxide. Hydroperoxides can
react with transition metals to generate hydroxyl radi-
cals, which are highly reactive and damaging species.

In this study, we have investigated the relative impor-
tance of each of these species in the autoxidation of
6-OHDA under different reaction conditions. We have
used a combination of chemical inhibitors and enzyme
assays to determine the contribution of each species to
the overall reaction mechanism. The results show that
the relative importance of each species is determined by
a complex interplay of several factors, including en-
zyme availability, pH, metal ion concentrations, and
inhibitor concentrations.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

6-Hydroxydopamine hydrochloride was obtained from
Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). All other chemi-
cals were purchased from commercial sources and used
without further purification.

Autoxidation reactions were carried out in phosphate
buffer (pH 7.4) at 25°C. The reaction mixture con-
tained 10 μM 6-OHDA, and various concentrations of
inhibitors or enzymes. The following inhibitors were
used: superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, ethylenedi-
aminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), N,N,N′,N′-tetrakis(2-hydroxypropyl)ethylenediamine (DETAPAC).

The progress of the autoxidation reaction was moni-
tored by measuring the absorbance at 310 nm over time.
The rate of autoxidation was calculated from the initial
slope of the absorbance versus time curve. The percent
inhibition of autoxidation was calculated as follows:

% Inhibition = [(Rate – RateControl) / RateControl] × 100

where Rate is the rate of autoxidation in the presence
of an inhibitor or enzyme, and RateControl is the rate
of autoxidation in the absence of any inhibitors or en-
zymes.

RESULTS

The autoxidation of 6-OHDA proceeds through a com-
plex network of transition metal ions, superoxide, hy-
drogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, and other species
(Figure 1). The contribution of each to the reaction
mechanism varies dramatically depending upon which
scavengers are present.

When metal ions or hydroperoxides are removed,
superoxide dominates reactions (Figure 2). Transition
metal ions participate more if hydroperoxides are ex-
cluded; hydrogen peroxide becomes important if both O2•
and metal ions are excluded, and hydroxyl radicals con-
tribute more to the reaction mechanism if both H2O2
and O2• are excluded.

Superoxide dismutase inhibited most of the reaction
mechanisms: a high affinity mechanism (13% inhibition
at catalytically effective concentrations), and a low affin-
ity mechanism (almost complete inhibition at the highest
concentrations) which depends upon both metal binding
and catalytic activity. In the presence of DETAPAC, su-
peroxide dismutase inhibits more effectively than cata-
lase or EDTA. Catalase metal chelating agents inhi-
bited strongly in the presence of superoxide dismutase.

When present alone they inhibited slightly but cumu-
latively (15%) when added alone; had little effect (like
DETAPAC). Catalase which elimmed slight but consis-
tently (>5%) when added alone. Inhibitors 100% in the
presence of superoxide dismutase + DETAPAC. Howev-
er, in the absence of metal ions, catalase decreased inhi-
bition by superoxide dismutase and EDTA. In the pres-
ence of hydroperoxides, inhibitors increased inhibition
by superoxide produced little or no (<1%) inhibition, but
inhibited 30% in the presence of superoxide dismutase +
DETAPAC.

The relative importance of each species is determined
by a combination of several parameters: enzyme availa-
bility, pH, metal ion concentrations, and inhibitor con-
centrations.

FIGURE 1

[Image of Figure 1 not included]

FIGURE 2

[Image of Figure 2 not included]

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We thank [Names not included].

REFERENCES

1.  [References 1-13 not included]