JOURNAL OF CELLULAR PHYSIOLOGY 150:619-619 (1992)

#2

Glycolipid Depletion Using a Ceramide Analogue (PDMP) Alters Growth, Adhesion, and Membrane Lipid Organization in Human A431 Cells

SUZANNE BARBOUR, MICHAEL EDDIN, BRUNHILDE FELDING-HABERMANN,
JANELLE TAYLOR-NORTON, NORMAN S. RADIN, and BRUCE A. FENDERSON*
Department of Biology, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218 (S.B.,
M.I.), The Burnham Institute, Seattle, Washington 98119 (B.F.-H., I.T.-N., B.A.F.), and
Mental Health Research Institute of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109 (N.S.R.)

Glycolipids were depleted from the membranes of human A431 cells using 1-(2-decylamino)-1-morpholinoethan-1-ol (PDMP), an inhibitor of glycosphingo-
lyceramide synthesis. After 6 days of culture in the presence of 5 µM D-theto-
PDMP, glycolipid content was reduced to approximately 5% of control levels. By
contrast, sphingomyelin and phosphatidylcholine concentrations remained un-
changed, and glycosphingolipids were relatively unchanged in PDMP-treated cells. In parallel with
glycolipid depletion, PDMP-treated cells exhibited a marked alteration in cell
morphology, a reduced rate of cell growth, and inhibition of cell-substrate adhe-
sion. The effects of PDMP on cell morphology and substrate adhesion
were blocked by exogenous GM1 addition and were not observed with 1-deca-
PDMP (a relatively inactive enantiomer). Fluorescence photolocalization and re-
covery after photobleaching experiments indicated that glycolipids influence cell
behavior, in part, by changing the diffusion characteristics of membrane proteins
and lipids. Diffusion coefficients of a class I MHC antigen and other membrane
proteins, the EGF receptor and a class III MHC antigen, were altered significantly
between control and PDMP-treated cells. Diffusion coefficients of lipid probes,
DMPE and DOPC, were also affected by glycolipid depletion. The effects on mobile
diffusion coefficients, however, lipid probes did show a similar increase in membrane
fluidity as observed with GM1 addition. To allow for a difference in PDMP-treated cell tis-
sues, the effect of PDMP was examined on the incorporation of [3H]glucosamine into
membrane bound cell cultures that are able to produce it. The formation of lipid
derivatives was also studied by analyzing glycolipid and transmembrance.

We wish to thank Laura L. Hixson, Michael J. Hockinson, and Jeffrey N. Wu for their
assistance with various aspects of this work. We are grateful to Dr. Samuel Weissman, University
of California, San Diego, for the gift of DMPE. This research was supported by National Institutes
of Health grants R01 CA39754 (S.B., B.A.F.) and R01 GM36285 (B.A.F.), and by a grant from
Genencor International, Inc. (B.A.F.). Portions of this research were performed at the Mental Health
Research Institute of Michigan, which is supported by Public Health Service grants MH44901 and
MH47325.

*To whom reprint requests should be addressed.

Received 28 June 1992; accepted 26 October 1992.



A major class of glycosphingolipids in mammalian cell membranes is glucocerebrosides, which are
typically synthesized from ceramide and glucose-1-phosphate by the enzyme glucosylceramide syn-
thase (1). These glycosphingolipids play a critical role in various cellular processes, including cell-cell
recognition, signal transduction, and membrane organization (2, 3). The precise functions of individual
glycosphingolipids are often difficult to determine because of the complexity of their biosynthesis and
the lack of specific inhibitors.

We have recently developed a novel ceramide analogue, 1-(2-decylamino)-1-morpholinoethan-1-ol
(D-theto-PDMP), which specifically inhibits glucosylceramide synthase (4). This compound is effective
in depleting glycosphingolipids from cell membranes and provides a unique tool for studying their func-
tions. In this paper, we report that treatment of human A431 cells with D-theto-PDMP results in a sig-
nificant reduction in glycolipid content, accompanied by alterations in cell morphology, growth rate,
and membrane lipid organization.



