Vol. 264 No. 36 December 28, 1989 pp. 11537-11542

THE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY
© 1989 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

Disulfide Linkage of Biotin Identifies a 106-kDa Ca2+ Release Channel in Sarcoplasmic Reticulum*

(Received for publication November 23, 1988, and in revised form, October 6, 1989)

Nikhat F. Zaidif, Carl F. Lagaun¹, Robert J. Hilkert, Hui Xiongl, Jonathan J. Abramsonł, and Guy Salama**

From Departments of Physiology & Neurobiology, Anatomy, and Cell Science, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15261 and the Physics Department, Portland State University, Portland, Oregon 97207

Reactive disulfide reagents (RD$s) with a biotin moiety have been synthesized and found to cause Ca2+ release from sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) vesicles. The RDSs oxidize SR proteins via mixed disul-
fide exchange, with the formation of biotinylated and non-biotinylated RDS compounds. Biotinyl-
ated RDSs identified a 106-kDa protein which was purified by affinity chromatography. Reducing agents did not shift/releaset, reverse the effect of RD$s and thus promoted active reuptake of Ca2+ and dissociated biotin from the labeled protein. The results suggest that this protein is a disulfide bond-containing Ca2+ channel. Several lines of evidence indicate that this protein is not SR Ca2+-ATPase and is not a ryanodine receptor subunit. A 300-kDa complex against the ATPase did not cross-react with the 106-kDa protein, and polyclonal anti-bodies against the 106-kDa do not react with either the SR Ca2+-ATPase or the ryanodine receptor. Linear sucrose gradient centrifugation was used to purify the 106-kDa protein that is associated with SR vesicles. The purified protein shows a molecular weight of 106 kDa by SDS-PAGE. The 106-kDa protein appears to be localized in a Ca2+ release channel complex, and its biotinylation provides a means for studying the structure and function of this channel.

The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) is an endo-
plasmic reticulum found in muscle cells that stores
and releases Ca2+. The release of Ca2+ from SR
triggers muscle contraction (Sanders et al., 1980).
Ca2+ release can occur via two mechanisms: a phos-
pholipids-induced Ca2+ release (PIC) pathway and
a voltage-induced Ca2+ release (VICR) pathway
(Franzini-Armstrong & Stern, 1984; Inesi et al.,
1985). The PIC pathway involves the binding of
phospholipids to a receptor on the SR membrane,
which then triggers Ca2+ release. The VICR path-
way involves depolarization of the cell membrane,
which then causes Ca2+ release from the SR.

The molecular mechanisms underlying both Ca2+
release pathways are not fully understood. Several
lines of evidence suggest that a receptor/channel
complex is involved in Ca2+ release (Lai &
Santucci, 1986; Holmberg et al., 1987). The re-
ceptor may be linked to a channel through which
Ca2+ flows from the SR lumen into the cytosol.
The molecular weight of this receptor/channel com-
plex is estimated to be in the range of 150,000-
250,000 (Lai & Santucci, 1986; Holmberg et al.,
1987).

In a previous article, we have described a class of “reac-
tive” disulfide (RDS) compounds (i.e. dithiolpyridines) that
can cause Ca2+ release from sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) vesicles
(1). The RDSs react with oxidizing sulfhydryl groups on SR proteins through a thiol-disulfide exchange
reaction and the formation of mixed disulfides between the
SR proteins and the RDS compounds. This reaction re-
opened a Ca2+ channel pathway which was determined
by ion flux studies. These RDSs were DTT, result-
ing in active Ca2+ uptake by SR vesicles (1). Among
the dithiolpyridines that were tested, 3-[(N-succinimidyl
sulfinyl)methyl]pyridine-2-thione was found to react
with the thiol residues and production of covalently conju-
gated for a limited extent to interfere with protein
function. The RDS compounds were synthesized and purified
via mixed diffusion in dimethylformamide, facilitating results-
tion opened a mixed channel pathway which was determined
by ion flux studies. Two methods were used to synthesize
the reactive disulfide: two pyridine-2-thione rings are con-
nected by a succinimidyl group. The RDSs react with thiol
groups on SR proteins through a thiol-disulfide exchange
reaction and the formation of mixed disulfides between the
SR proteins and the RDS compounds. This reaction re-
opened a Ca2+ channel pathway which was determined
by ion flux studies.

We have used this strategy to identify a 106-kDa protein
associated with the SR membrane. The RDSs react with thiol
groups on SR proteins via mixed disulfide exchange, and
the biotinylated protein can then be purified by affinity
chromatography using streptavidin-agarose beads (1).

EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES

Materials

N-hydroxysuccinimide, 3-[(N-succinimidyl sulfinyl)methyl]pyri-
dine-2-thione, pyridine-2-thione, dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
(DCC), and streptavidin-agarose were purchased from Sigma.
SR vesicles were prepared from rabbit skeletal muscle as de-
scribed previously (Fabiato & Fabiato, 1978).

Synthesis of Biotinylated RDS Compounds

Biotinylated RDS compounds were synthesized as described pre-
viously (1). Briefly, N-hydroxysuccinimide was reacted with
3-[(N-succinimidyl sulfinyl)methyl]pyridine-2-thione and bi-
otin in the presence of DCC. The biotinylated RDS compound
was purified by gel filtration chromatography on Sephadex G-50.

Affinity Chromatography

SR vesicles (1 mg protein) were incubated with 10 µM biotin-
ylated RDS compounds for 30 min at room temperature. The
vesicles were then lysed by sonication in buffer A (20 mM Tris-
HCl, pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA). The lysate was centrifuged at
100,000 x g for 30 min, and the pellet was resuspended in
buffer A. The protein was applied to a streptavidin-agarose col-
umn (2 cm diameter) that had been equilibrated with buffer A.
The column was washed extensively with buffer A until no pro-
tein eluted. Bound proteins were then eluted with 20 mM Tris-
HCl, pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 0.2% Triton X-100. Fractions
were collected and analyzed by SDS-PAGE.

Results

Identification of a 106-kDa Protein

Treatment of SR vesicles with biotinylated RDS compounds
resulted in the formation of a mixed disulfide between the
RDS compound and an SR protein (1). The biotinylated pro-
tein could then be purified by affinity chromatography using
streptavidin-agarose beads. As shown in Fig. 1A, a band at
approximately 106 kDa was detected on SDS-PAGE after af-
finity purification of the RDS-reacted SR vesicles. This
band was not observed when control samples (SR vesicles
incubated with unreacted RDS compounds) were subjected to
the same procedure (Fig. 1B).

To confirm that the 106-kDa protein was covalently linked
to biotin, the purified protein was treated with neuraminidase
and then analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The molecular weight of
the protein decreased from 106 kDa to approximately 98 kDa
(data not shown), indicating that a glycosylation had been re-
moved.

The effect of reducing agents on the biotinylated RDS com-
plex was examined. Treatment of the purified protein with DTT
resulted in dissociation of biotin from the labeled protein (Fig.
2A). The molecular weight of the protein increased from 106 kDa
to approximately 114 kDa after treatment with DTT, indicating
that a disulfide bond had been reduced.

To determine whether the 106-kDa protein was an ATPase
or a ryanodine receptor subunit, Western blot analysis was per-
formed using antibodies against these proteins. The anti-ATPase
antibody did not react with the 106-kDa protein (Fig. 2B),
whereas the anti-ryanodine receptor antibody also did not re-
act with the 106-kDa protein (Fig