Production of unsaturated carbonyl compounds during metabolism
of hydroperoxy fatty acids by colonic homogenates

Arthur W.Bull and Joel C.Brunstein

Oakland University, Department of Chemistry, Rochester, MI 30904-3801,
USA

Recent evidence has suggested that unsaturated carbonyl
compounds may be the ultimate products from the
primary auto-oxidation products of unsaturated fatty acids.
The present study has investigated the metabolism of
1-hydroperoxy-eicosadienoic acid (13-HOOH) by rat colonic
homogenates. This hydroperoxide is one of the primary
products formed from the oxygenation of linoleic acid, the
most abundant dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid. Incubation
mixtures contained 13-HOOH and colonic homogenates
prepared from male Sprague-Dawley rats. After 30 min of
incubation the reactions were quenched and the products
extracted for analysis by HPLC. The identity of the eluted
products was verified by UV, MS, and NMR spectroscopy.
The major products include a mixture of isomers of
2,4-dienone cis fatty acids and 1-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic
acid. Direct comparison of homogenate-mediated to
hematein-catalyzed, allyl radical-mediated decomposition
of 13-HOOH shows some similarities. In addition,
particular products are detected in the presence
of tissue homogenates where these are absent in the often
unreactive during the decomposition of UV irradiation. The
present study demonstrates significant differences in the
production of relatively large amounts of unsaturated
carbonyl-containing fatty acids during the metabolism
of 13-HOOH that occur at colonic sites, as opposed to
hematein-catalyzed reactions. The fact that the major
products are dienone cis fatty acids suggests that these
are formed by a mechanism involving allylic oxidation.
The formation of 1-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic acid is
consistent with the involvement of an oxygenated species
such as hydroperoxy or hydroxy fatty acids. It is
hypothesized that these reactions may contribute to the
carcinogenicity of diets high in polyunsaturated fatty acids.

Several studies have shown that colonic microflora can
convert dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids into a variety of
metabolic products, including phenolic compounds and short-
chain fatty acids (1, 2). These metabolic activities are
influenced by diet composition and the types of bacteria
present in the colon. Recent studies have provided some support for this possibility by
demonstrating that colonic carcinogenicity is enhanced to a greater
degree by diets rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids than by diets
containing similar amounts of saturated fatty acids (4, 5).

The oxidation products of the major unsaturated fatty acids
have been shown to be mutagenic to the *Salmonella* his+
(3). Hydroperoxy, hydroxy and keto fatty acids are all equipotent
mutagens. These results raise the possibility that the oxidation
products are converted to a common metabolic intermediate that
is responsible for the observed activity. On the basis of a number
of lines of reasoning, we have suggested that 13-eicosatrienoic
ketone is the ultimate mutagen formed from the products of fatty
acid oxygenation (6).

The initial products of unsaturated fatty acid oxidation are
hydroperoxy fatty acids (7). In numerous tissues, stimulated by
a variety of agents, there are enzymatic routes available
for the formation of hydroperoxy fatty acids. Without question
the most investigated intermediate compounds are those derived
from linoleic acid; however, it has recently been observed
that oleic acid is also susceptible to oxygenation (8, 9).
In addition to enzymatically mediated hydroperoxy lipid peroxidation
also results in the formation of hydroperoxy products (10). In fact,
it is often suggested that the oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty
acids mediates many of the deleterious responses to toxic agents
(11, 10).

Due to the distribution of enzymes for oxygenation and subsequent
reactions, the metabolism of fatty acids may vary significantly.
For example, in the liver, there are enzymes capable of catalyzing
the beta-oxidation of fatty acids (12), while in the colon,
fatty acids are metabolized by bacterial flora (13). The relative
importance of these metabolic pathways is dependent on diet and
other factors. In this study, we have investigated the metabolism
of 13-HOOH by rat colonic homogenates to determine whether
the products formed are similar to those observed in other tissues.

Materials and Methods

Animals: Male Sprague-Dawley rats (Charles River Breeding
Laboratory, Wilmington, MA) were used in this study. The animals
were fed a standard chow diet for at least 1 week prior to sacrifice.

Homogenates: Colonic homogenates were prepared as previously
described (6). Briefly, the colon was removed from fasted rats and
rinsed with ice-cold buffer. The tissue was then homogenized in 9
volumes of ice-cold buffer using a Potter-Elvehjem glass
homogenizer. The buffer consisted of 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4,
containing 1 mM EDTA and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride.

Incubation: Incubation mixtures contained 50 μL of colonic
homogenate, 13-HOOH (20 μM), and buffer to a final volume
of 1 mL. The reactions were incubated at 37°C for 30 min.
Quenching: After incubation, the reactions were quenched by
addition of 5 mL ice-cold methanol.

Extraction: The products were extracted with ethyl acetate as
previously described (6). The organic extracts were dried over
anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum.

Analysis: The eluted products were analyzed by HPLC using a
reversed-phase C18 column. Elution was performed with a gradient
of acetonitrile in water. Fractions were collected and analyzed by
UV, MS, and NMR spectroscopy.

Results

The metabolism of 13-HOOH by rat colonic homogenates
results in the formation of several products (Figure 1). The major
products are isomers of 2,4-dienone cis fatty acids and
1-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic acid. These products were also detected
when hematein was used to catalyze the decomposition of 13-HOOH
(Figure 2).

Discussion

The results of this study demonstrate that colonic homogenates
can metabolize 13-HOOH to form a variety of products, including
dienone cis fatty acids and 1-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic acid. The
formation of these products is consistent with the involvement of
oxygenated species such as hydroperoxy or hydroxy fatty acids.

The dienone cis fatty acids are likely formed by an allylic
oxidation mechanism. This mechanism involves the abstraction of a
hydrogen atom from an allylic position on the fatty acid molecule,
followed by reaction with oxygen to form an enol intermediate. The
enol intermediate then tautomerizes to form the dienone cis fatty
acid.

The 1-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic acid is likely formed by hydroxylation
of the hydroperoxy fatty acid. This reaction may be catalyzed by a
cytochrome P450 enzyme or other oxygenase.

The formation of these products suggests that colonic bacteria
may play a role in the metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids.
Further studies are needed to identify the specific bacterial species
involved and to determine the enzymes responsible for these reactions.

References

1. Macfarlane, G. T., et al. 1983. *Adv. Microbial. Physiol.* 25:
1-64.
2. Tipton, K. H., et al. 1983. *Adv. Microbial. Physiol.* 25: 65-97.
3. Weisburger, J. H., et al. 1978. *Mutat. Res.* 43: 291-297.
4. Reddy, J. S., et al. 1980. *Carcinogenesis* 1: 561-566.
5. Reddy, J. S., et al. 1981. *Carcinogenesis* 2: 37-42.
6. Bull, A. W., et al. 1983. *J. Biol. Chem.* 258: 10811-10817.
7. Nelson, D. J., et al. 1981. *Lipids* 16: 499-505.
8. Horrocks, L. B., et al. 1973. *J. Biol. Chem.* 248: 4133-4139.
9. Nelson, D. J., et al. 1981. *Lipids* 16: 499-505.
10. Frei, B., et al. 1982. *Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.* 200: 371-377.
11. Slater