Voltage-Dependent Sodium Channels

Sidney A. Cohen* and Robert B. Harchit
Mahoney Institute of Neurological Sciences and the Departments of Medicine,*
Neurology,* and Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104

I. Introduction

The past four decades have witnessed tremendous advances in our understanding of the structure and function of voltage-dependent sodium channels. Since the original electrophysiologic description of sodium currents during an action potential some 40 years ago (Hodgkin and Huxley, 1952), the sodium channel protein has been purified, reconstituted, sequenced, functionally expressed, and selectively mutated. Through these manipulations, a detailed understanding of the molecular workings of this complex protein is beginning to emerge. Three-dimensional structural models have been proposed and modified based on experimental results. Functional domains are being defined. The details of structure that distinguish sodium channel isoforms and the factors that govern isoform expression are beginning to emerge.

This review will focus on recent studies of sodium channel structure, function, and expression focusing on how the interplay of electrophysiol- ogy, biochemistry, immunology, and molecular biology have contributed to our current molecular conceptualization of this protein. The vast literature covering electrophysiologic and biochemical studies of the so- dium channel will be only briefly summarized; the reader is referred to several excellent reviews for more in-depth coverage (Armstrong, 1981; Hille, 1984; Horn, 1984; Yamamoto, 1985; Catterall, 1986, 1988; Barchi, 1988).

II. Early Studies of Structure and Function

A. Sodium Currents and Channel Kinetics

The central role of sodium currents in the generation of action potentials was first described in the pioneering work of Hodgkin and Huxley (1952).

International Review of Cytology, Vol. 176 55 Copyright © 1991 by Academic Press, Inc. All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.



50632771