Compliance of the main pulmonary artery
during the ventilatory cycle

BRYDON J. B. GRANT and BARUCH B. LIEBER
Departments of Medicine and of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering,
State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 14215

GRANT, BRYDON J. B., and BARUCH B. LIEBER. Compliance
of the main pulmonary artery during the ventilatory cycle. J.
Appl. Physiol. 72(2): 535-542, 1992.—Transmural pulmonary
arterial pressure (Ppa) and diameter (D) were measured simultaneously in anesthetized open-chest dogs. The instantane-
ous volume was calculated from D and L. Pulmonary arterial
elasticity for diameter (Epa) was calculated as the ratio of the
change in Ppa to the change in D. Compliance was defined as
the reciprocal of Epa. Compliance and vessel length were con-
sidered as separate indices of compliance (Vp) and (Vp). Com-
pliance per unit length was calculated from the dimensions and
elasticity of the MPA. Under control conditions with 6 rpm, 0
positive end-expiratory pressure, Epa, D, and Vp at cardiac
frequency were 175 ± 14, 13 ± 1, and 28 ± 3 ml/cm, respec-
tively. Epa increased with positive end-expiratory pressures but
Epa decreased and Epa was unaffected. Epa, D, Vp, and
compliance per unit length were significantly different be-
tween the start of inspiration and the start of expiration. In
addition, there were no significant phase differences between
the changes in Ppa and V at respiratory frequency. We con-
clude that the previously reported time variation of pulmonary
arterial compliance during the ventilatory cycle is not due to
time-varying properties of the MPA.

KEY WORDS: arterial compliance; instantaneous pressure; prog-
ressive volume; vessel length

The mechanical behavior of the main pulmonary artery (MPA)
is an important determinant of cardiac function and pulmo-
nary hemodynamics. The MPA, unlike systemic arteries,
remains distensible throughout life (1). This distensibility
allows for greater accommodation of pulsatile flow and
reduces afterload on the right ventricle (2). Previous stud-
ies have shown that pulmonary arterial compliance varies
with time during the ventilatory cycle (3, 4). However, the
mechanisms underlying this time variation are not well un-
derstood.

The instantaneous volume of a segment of MPA can be es-
timated from its diameter and length. The pressure-volume
relationship of a vessel segment can then be used to assess
its mechanical properties. We have measured pulmonary ar-
terial pressure (Ppa) and diameter (D) simultaneously in
anesthetized open-chest dogs and calculated the instantane-
ous volume of a segment of MPA were measured simultaneously.
The instantaneous volume (V) was calculated from D
and L. The instantaneous volume (V) was calculated.
because this was the fundamental basis of the imped-
ance spectrum from which pulmonary arterial (s was cal-
culated. Respiratory f was selected because time-varying
properties of the vascular wall may result in phase shifts
between Ppa and V at this f.

METHODS

Animal preparation. Experiments were performed on
six mongrel dogs that weighed between 17 and 21 kg.
Anesthetia were induced with thiamyl 1.5 mg/kg, imme-
diately followed by intravenous injection of 120 mg/kg
of a chloralose solution. Anesthesia was main-
tained with a continuous infusion of α-chloralose at
a rate of 43 mg·kg−¹. Details are provided else-
where (4).

Each dog was ventilated with 100% oxygen at approxi-
mately 35 cycles/min. The trachea were intubated and con-
nected to a Harvard Polyvac ventilator. Pulmonary ar-
terial pressure was measured through a No. 20 catheter (Po-
lycan, Baxter Travenol) inserted into the left ventricle
and advanced into the MPA. Arterial pressure was moni-
tored through a No. 5 polyethylene catheter inserted into
the femoral artery. Both catheters were zeroed to atrial pres-
sure. The heart rate and ECG were monitored with standard
leads. A rectal temperature probe was used to monitor core
body temperature, which was maintained at 37 ± 1°C by use
of a heating pad.

The chest was opened through a midline sternotomy, and
the MPA was exposed in the mainstem. The vessel was dis-
sected free from surrounding tissue. A No. 20 polyethylene
catheter was placed around the MPA to measure its diam-
eter. The catheter was calibrated before use by measuring
its internal diameter with a micrometer. The diameter of the
MPA was determined by relating the catheter output to the
micrometer measurements.

Data acquisition and analysis. Ppa, arterial pressure,
heart rate, ECG, and MPA diameter were recorded sim-
ultaneously on a Honeywell 1600 data acquisition sys-
tem (Honeywell, Waltham, MA). The signals were digitized
at a frequency of 500 Hz and stored on magnetic tape for
later analysis.

Pulmonary arterial elasticity for diameter (Epa) was calcu-
lated as the ratio of the change in Ppa to the change in D.
Compliance was defined as the reciprocal of Epa. Com-
pliance per unit length was calculated from the dimensions
and elasticity of the MPA. The instantaneous volume of



