Hepatlc gene therapy: Adenovirus enhancement of receptor-
mediated gene delivery and expression in primary hepatocytes

(asialoglycoprotein / cndoyte/phenylketonuria)

RICHARD J. CRISTIANO*, LOUIS C. SMITH*, and SAVIO L. COO**‡§
*Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Departments of Cell Biology, Molecular Genetics, and Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030
Communicated by W. K. Summers, December 3, 1992 (received for review October 1, 1992)

ABSTRACT We have combined a receptor-mediated DNA
delivery system with the endosomal lysis ability of adenovirus
and shown that DNA can be delivered into primary hepato-
cytes, resulting in high levels of gene expression. When
asialoglycoprotein conjugated with poly(L-lysine) was used to
deliver the Herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-tk)
gene into primary cultures of human hepatocytes, the hepatic asialoglycopro-
tein receptor, only a few level of B-galactosidase was detectable,
with less than 0.1% of the hepatocytes being transduced. This
level of activity can be greatly enhanced by the co-internaliza-
tion of the DNA/protein complex with a replication-defective
adenovirus, resulting in 100+ times the fluorescence staining due
with 3'-brom-o-chlor-o'-indolyl B-D-galactosidase. Quantita-
tive analysis of HSV-tk expression showed more than 1000-
fold enhancement of activity. To test the applicability of this
DNA delivery system for the correction of phenylketonuria, a
metabolic disorder that causes severe mental retardation in
children, we have delivered the human phenylalanine hydroxylase
(PAH) gene into hepatocytes derived from a PAH-deficient
mouse strain and demonstrated complete restoration of enzymatic
activity. This method may therefore great promise for
efficient gene delivery to the liver for correction of genetic
disorders.

The liver is an attractive target for gene therapy because it
is readily accessible, possesses a high regenerative capacity,
and has a unique sinusoidal structure that allows for efficient
uptake of macromolecules. Receptor-mediated DNA delivery
systems have been developed to overcome the limitations of
traditional viral vectors, such as low efficiency and toxicity.
These systems typically involve conjugating DNA with a ligand
that binds to a receptor on the surface of target cells. The
receptor-ligand complex is then internalized by endocytosis,
and the DNA is released into the cytoplasm. However, most
endocytosed material is degraded in lysosomes, which limits
the efficiency of receptor-mediated gene transfer.

Adenovirus is an efficient vector for gene delivery to a wide
range of cell types. Adenoviral vectors can be engineered to
lack viral genes, resulting in replication-defective viruses that
are safe for clinical use. We have combined the specificity of
receptor-mediated DNA delivery with the endosomal lysis
ability of adenovirus to create a novel system for efficient
gene transfer into hepatocytes. In this system, DNA is complexed
with an asialoglycoprotein (ASOR) ligand and then co-internalized
with a replication-defective adenovirus. The adenovirus then
lyses the endosome, releasing the DNA into the cytoplasm.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Preparation of ASOR and Uptake Studies in Primary He-
patocytes. Ornithine (Sigma) was desialylated with
neuraminidase (Calbiochem) to form ASOR. Residual sialic
acid was determined to be less than 0.5% by the thiobar-
bituric acid assay. ASOR was labeled with europium-chelate
II phycoerythrin (Amersham). All media used for hepatocyte
isolation and growth were purchased from Gibco. Hepato-
cytes were isolated from 10- to 12-week-old C57BL/6 mice
and 10 to 12-week-old phenylalanlne hydroxylase (PAH)-
deficient mice by collagenase perfusion (37). The hepatocytes
were plated at a density of 3 x 10^5 cells per ml in Williams’
E medium plus 10% fetal bovine serum. 2 hours after plating,
cells were incubated with 10 µg/ml of either unlabeled
ASOR or europium-chelate II phycoerythrin labeled ASOR.
After 2 hours, the cells were washed three times with phosphate-
buffered saline (PBS) and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde.
Cells were then incubated with a replication-defective adenoviral
vector expressing B-galactosidase (AdBgal). The adenovirus
was used at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 10. After
incubation for 2 hours, the cells were washed three times with
PBS and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde. Cells were then
incubated with X-Gal substrate to detect B-galactosidase
activity.

DNA/protein complex formation. Quantitative enhancement
of DNA delivery and functional expression in hepatocytes
was achieved by the co-internalization of the asialoglycoprotein (ASOR) system for gene delivery and the
endosomal lysis ability of adenovirus is a powerful
technology that can be developed into a simple procedure for
hepatic gene therapy by systemic gene delivery.



Vol. 90, pp. 2122-2128, March 1993
Genetics