Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
Vol. 90, pp. 3705-3709, April 1993
Immunology

Replacement of germ-line + promoter by gene targeting alters
control of immunoglobulin heavy chain class switching

(IgH/interleukin-4) / homologous recombination)

LING XU, BEVERLY GORHAM, SUZANNE C. LI, ANDREA BOTTAro, FREDERICK W. ALT*,
AND PAUL ROTHMAN*

Departments of Microbiology and Medicine, and Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Columbia University College of
Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY 10032

Communicated by Harold S. Ginsberg, January 4, 1993

ABSTRACT Recent work has shown that the ability of
cytokines to direct immunoglobulin heavy chain class-switch
recombination to particular heavy chain constant (C) region
(Cμ) genes correlates with the induction of specific germ-line
Cμ transcripts. To test the role of germ-line Cμ transcripts in class
switching, we have used homologous recombination to mate
the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus into a murine pre-B cell line.
In the parental cell line, the combination
of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces
germ-line Cμ transcription prior to class switching to γ+.
The heavy chains locus of the mutated cell line contains the
immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer and variable region gene
promoter in place of the LPS/IL-4-responsive germ-line
+ promoter. The mutant cell line constitutively transcribes the
Cμ gene in the absence of IL-4, but switches to γ+ only when it
also switches to μ at least in the presence of IL-4. This result dem-
onstrates that, as in the 18.8A10 cell line, germ-line Cμ
transcription plays a critical role in directing class switching
by altering transcriptional activity patterns that regulation
of addition-substitution to change the character of trans-switch
genes.

To date, the ability of interleukin-4 (IL-4) to direct
immunoglobulin heavy chain class switching to γ has been
demonstrated in several B cell lines and primary B cells (1-5).
The mechanism by which IL-4 directs class switching is not
fully understood, but it appears to involve the induction of
germ-line Cμ transcripts (6). These transcripts are thought to
be necessary for class switching because they provide a template
for the switch regions that mediate recombination between Cμ and
the target C region gene. In addition, germ-line Cμ
transcripts may be required to recruit or activate factors that
mediate class switching (7).

The induction of germ-line Cμ transcripts is thought to
depend on both LPS and IL-4 (6). LPS induces the expression
of transcripts + that initiate upstream of the switch recombina-
tion sequences of the involved Cμ gene (reviewed in ref. 6).
For example, concurrent treatment of murine splenic B
lymphocytes or certain B cell lines with LPS and IL-4
induces expression of germ-line transcripts at the transcrip-
tional level before the production of IgH (7, 9). Germ-line
transcripts are also found in human Cμ genes and are structurally conserved. Further
evidence for the important role of germ-line transcription
has been provided by the identification of cytokine
responsive cis elements around the initiation regions of
Cμ transcripts (10, 11).

The correlation between germ-line Cμ transcription and
subsequent recombination implicates explain through
specific signals as a targeting mechanism for class switch-
ing. There are several models that explain the mech-
anism by which germ-line transcription is directed there is
a non-specific switch recombination machinery is that there is
to specific regions with transcription, perhaps by altering
the chromatin structure (refs. 2 and 12). Another model
is that germ-line transcripts recruit or activate factors
that mediate class switching (7).

To test the role of germ-line Cμ transcripts in class
switching, we have used homologous recombination to mate
the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus into a murine pre-B cell
line. The parental 18.8A10 cell line exhibits normal IgH
gene rearrangement and class switching (13). In this cell line,
IL-4 induces germ-line Cμ transcription prior to class switch-
ing to γ+ (6). We have replaced the LPS/IL-4-responsive
germ-line + promoter in the 18.8A10 cell line with a
constitutively active SV40 early promoter. The resulting
mutant cell line, termed 18.8A10-Cμ, exhibits several
interesting phenotypic alterations.

In the parental 18.8A10 cell line, IL-4 induces germ-line
Cμ transcription and class switching to γ+ (6). In contrast,
the 18.8A10-Cμ cell line transcribes the Cμ gene constitutively
in the absence of IL-4. However, this cell line switches to γ+
only when it also switches to μ at least in the presence of IL-4.
These results demonstrate that germ-line Cμ transcription plays
a critical role in directing class switching by altering
transcriptional activity patterns.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Cell Culture and Transfection
The 18.8A10 murine pre-B cell line was obtained from
Dr. Leonard Chess (Johns Hopkins University). Cells were
maintained in Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium (DMEM)
supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), 5 x 10^-4
M β-mercaptoethanol, and 2 mM L-glutamine.

Construction of Targeting Vector
The targeting vector was constructed as described in ref. 13.
Briefly, a DNA fragment containing the SV40 early promoter
was cloned into the EcoRI site of the pUC19 plasmid. The
resulting plasmid was digested with BamHI and XbaI, and the
SV40 early promoter fragment was ligated into the corresponding
sites in the targeting vector.

Homologous Recombination
The targeting vector was introduced into 18.8A10 cells by
electroporation. Transfectants were selected for resistance to
G418 (200 μg/ml). G418-resistant colonies were screened for
homologous recombination by Southern blotting using probes
external to the targeting construct.

Southern Blot Analysis
High molecular weight DNA was isolated from 18.8A10 and
18.8A10-Cμ cells, digested with appropriate restriction enzymes,
and subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis. DNA was transferred
to nylon membranes by capillary transfer. Membranes were
hybridized with labeled probes as described (14).

RT-PCR Analysis
Total RNA was isolated from 18.8A10 and 18.8A10-Cμ
cells using the acid guanidinium phenol method (15). RT-PCR
was performed using primers specific for germ-line Cμ and Cγ
transcripts.

RESULTS

Replacement of Germ-Line + Promoter Alters Class Switching
To test the role of germ-line Cμ transcripts in class
switching, we replaced the LPS/IL-4-responsive germ-line
+ promoter in the 18.8A10 cell line with a constitutively
active SV40 early promoter by homologous recombination (Fig.
1). The resulting mutant cell line, termed 18.8A10-Cμ,
exhibits several interesting phenotypic alterations.

In the parental 18.8A10 cell line, IL-4 induces germ-line
Cμ transcription and class switching to γ+ (6). In contrast,
the 18.8A10-Cμ cell line transcribes the Cμ gene constitutively
in the absence of IL-4 (Fig. 2). However, this cell line switches
to γ+ only when it also switches to μ at least in the presence
of IL-4. These results demonstrate that germ-line Cμ
transcription plays a critical role in directing class switching
by altering transcriptional activity patterns.

DISCUSSION

Our results provide strong evidence that germ-line Cμ
transcripts are required for class switching to γ+ in the
18.8A10 cell line. The parental 18.8A10 cell line exhibits
normal IgH gene rearrangement and class switching (13). In
this cell line, IL-4 induces germ-line Cμ transcription prior
to class switching to γ+ (6).

The 18.8A10-Cμ cell line transcribes the Cμ gene constitutively
in the absence of IL-4. However, this cell line switches to γ+
only when it also switches to μ at least in the presence
of IL-4. These results demonstrate that germ-line Cμ
transcription plays a critical role in directing class switching
by altering transcriptional activity patterns.

The mechanism by which germ-line Cμ transcripts direct
class switching is not fully understood.