Ventricular Refractory Periods in Relation to Rate and Test-
Site VT Intervals in Anesthetized and Conscious Dogs: A
Canine Model for Conscious State Measurements

JONNALAGEDDA, S.M. SARMA, MICHAEL BILITCH, and SERGIU G. MELINTE
From Department of Medicine, University of Southern California School of Medicine, 2025 Zonal Avenue,
Los Angeles, California

Correction: Throughout this paper, ‘VT interval’ means ‘test-site QT interval’.

SARMA, J.S.M., BILITCH, M., AND MELINTE, S.G.: Ventricular refractory periods in relation to
rate and test-site VT intervals in anesthesized and conscious dogs: a canine model for conscious
state measurements. The functional relationship of ventricular effective refractory period (ERP) with
basic cycle length (BCL) of stimulated ventricular depolarization and VT intervals of test-site unipolar
ventricular electrograms were studied in five conscious and eight anesthetized sodium pentobarbital, 30
mg/kg ip, animals. The range of BCLs used was 300 to 1000 ms, achieved through ventricular
stimulation following chemically induced complete AV block. In the conscious animal model developed
for this study, two-to-four ventricular electrode leads were exteriorized and the ventricular rate was
maintained by an implanted programmable VP pacemaker. In all animals studied, the BCL-ERP relation
was also represented by the empirical equation ERP = G+D. VT = A. Exp(-k.BCL), and the VT-ERP relation
was characterized range of BCLS was linear: ERP=G+D.VT. The correlation coefficients were in the range of
0.981 to 0.998. The mean values of the parameters in the above equations determined by the appropriate
non-linear or linear regression analysis showed significant differences between the two groups of
animals studied. In three conscious animals a strong linear correlation between the test-site VT intervals
and simultaneously measured QT intervals measured from the lead II surface electrocardiogram was dem-
onstrated (r = 0.983 to 0.998). For a fixed rate of stimulation, the morphology of ventricular depolariza-
tion complexes as well as the corresponding T-waves remained essentially unaltered with BCL for both
myocardial and surface electrograms. The possible application of developed canine model and the
results of this study should include: (1) the study of rate-dependent effects of cardioactive drugs on
ventricular repolarization and (2) the simulation of the electronic circuits of periodicities of pro-
grammable pacemakers. (PACE, Vol. 6, July-August, 1983)

[Figure]

A discussion is given here of a canine model
for conscious state measurements. The
availability of such a model should allow for
more meaningful study of ventricular electro-
physiology in the conscious animal. Ventricu-
lar arrhythmias are frequently encountered in
man, and their genesis and mechanisms are
often difficult to elucidate in anesthetized sub-
jects due to the influence of anesthesia on
membrane excitability.

A particularly useful system for experiments
is a closed-loop feedback system that main-
tains constant ventricular rate. Such a sys-
tem is widely used in current research, and
could be very well applied to conscious dogs as
discussed by several workers (1, 2) or by appli-
cation of a specially designed pacemaker (3).
However, the availability of a canine model for
conscious state measurements has been limited.
Therefore, we have developed such a model
and used it to study ventricular refractory pe-
riods in relation to rate and test-site VT inter-
vals.

Methods

Animal Preparation

Five adult mongrel dogs (weight 18–25 kg)
were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital,
30 mg/kg ip, and eight additional dogs were
studied in a conscious state.



