HEMODYNAMIC CHANGES ASSOCIATED WITH ANAPHYLAXIS
in parasite-sensitized rats

RONALD MATHISON, A. DEAN BEFUS, and JOSEPH S. DAVISON
Gastrointestinal Research Group, Departments of Medical Physiology and Microbiology and Infectious
Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N1, Canada

MATHISON, R., A. DEAN BEFUS, and J.S. DAVISON. Hemodynamic changes associated with anaphylaxis in
parasite-sensitized rats. Am. J. Physiol. 258 (Heart Circ. Phys-
iol. 31): H1106–H1119, 1980.—The effects of inducing shock
with the parasite Nippostrongylus brasiliensis—induced anaphylactic
changes associated with worm allergens—were studied. Allergen
induced decreased heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure,
and cardiac output (CO). Blood flow (%CO) to wet tissues increased
markedly by 240 min. Blood flow (%CO) to the kidneys,
hepatic artery, and most tissues, with the exception of the kidneys,
spleen, and adrenals, decreased during shock. CO was reduced
to arterial and enhanced flow to the kidneys, trachea,
and intestines were observed at 240 min. The distribution
of cardiac output per gram wet tissue (%CO/g)
increased initially to the kidneys, liver, and cervix, and diverted
to other gastrointestinal tissues. The %CO/g to
the adrenals decreased by 30 min and remained
unchanged for approximately 180 min. The intestine is an important
organ affected by anaphylaxis in the rat, and the liver may participate
in alleviating anaphylaxis.

INDEXES: shock; lungs; microcirculation; allergens; Nippostrongylus
brasiliensis

Received July 26, 1979; accepted November 10, 1979

WE thank J. D. MacLeod for his technical assistance. This research
was supported by Medical Research Council grant A-7493 and
Alberta Heritage Foundation Fund grant 81-5.

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS

Anaphylaxis is a severe allergic reaction that can be induced in
experimental animals by various means, including the injection of
antigen into previously sensitized hosts (12). The anaphylactic
response is characterized by a rapid onset of hypotension, dyspnea,
and other signs of circulatory shock. Although the mechanisms
underlying anaphylaxis are not fully understood, it is generally
accepted that the release of mediators from mast cells and basophils
plays a central role (13). These mediators include histamine, serotonin,
leukotrienes, and prostaglandins, which cause vasodilation, increased
vascular permeability, and bronchoconstriction.

The distribution of blood flow during anaphylaxis has been studied
in several species, including dogs, cats, and monkeys (1, 3, 4, 6, 7,
9, 15, 20, 22). In general, these studies have shown that blood flow
is diverted away from the major organs of circulation to the skin
and other peripheral tissues. This redistribution of blood flow is
thought to be a compensatory mechanism designed to maintain
oxygen delivery to vital organs during shock.

In recent years, there has been increasing interest in the role of
the gastrointestinal tract in anaphylaxis (8, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 19).
It has been shown that the gut is a major site of mast cell and basophil
degranulation during anaphylactic reactions (5, 18), and that intestinal
mucosa can release mediators that contribute to the systemic
anaphylactic response. Furthermore, it appears that the intestinal
vasculature is particularly sensitive to the effects of anaphylactic
mediators (2). It has also been suggested that the gut may serve as a
portal for entry of allergens into the circulation and that intestinal
mucosal mast cells can release factors that are recruited to the intestinal mucosa (12), although
immune and inflammatory responses occur elsewhere,
e.g., the trachea, spleen, and the lungs (2). Although the
integrity of the intestine may be primarily affected dur-
ing anaphylaxis, other as yet unidentified tissues may
participate in and contribute to development of the shock
syndrome.

In an attempt to more precisely define tissues that
participate in a systemic anaphylactic response in the
rat, we determined blood flow to a variety of tissues and
organs in animals that had previously been sensitized to
N. brasiliensis. We used radiolabeled microspheres to
measure regional blood flow changes, a technique that
has been applied successfully to the monkey (26) and
dog (13, 29) to study changes in the cardiovascular sys-
tem associated with anaphylaxis.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Male Sprague-Dawley rats (Charles River Breeding
Laboratories, Canada) of an initial weight of 250–280 g
were maintained in filter top cages (2–3 per cage)
on a standard laboratory diet and tap water ad libitum.
Pairs were injected intraperitoneally with 1 ml of a 3%
suspension of N. brasiliensis antigen (prepared from adult
worms collected from naturally infected pasture rats) on
days 0, 7, and 14.

Experimental procedures were performed as described
previously (25). Briefly, sensitized rats were anesthetized
with pentobarbital (60 mg/kg i.p.) and placed in a
stereotaxic apparatus. A polyethylene catheter was
inserted into the left ventricle via the femoral artery for
the injection of antigen. Regional blood flow was measured
using radiolabeled microspheres as described previously
(25). Microspheres (10–20 µm diameter) were labeled
with 59Fe and 14C, and injected into the left ventricle
at a rate of 2 ml/min. The radioactivity in samples of
blood collected from the abdominal aorta was measured
using a gamma spectrometer and a liquid scintillation
counter, respectively.

Regional blood flow was calculated from the dis-
appearance of microspheres from the systemic circulation
as described previously (25). Briefly, the fraction of
microspheres remaining in the systemic circulation at any
given time is proportional to the reciprocal of the sum
of the blood flows to all tissues. The regional blood flow
(Q) can then be calculated as follows:

Q = Qtotal * (A/W)

where Qtotal is the total blood flow, A is the radioactivity
in a tissue sample, and W is the wet weight of the tissue.
The total blood flow was determined from the systemic
clearance curve.

Data are expressed as mean ± SE. Statistical significance
was determined by Student’s t test.

RESULTS

Hemodynamic Responses to Antigen Injection

Injection of N. brasiliensis antigen into sensitized rats
induced a rapid decrease in heart rate, mean arterial blood
pressure, and cardiac output (CO). The changes in these
parameters are shown in Figure 1. Heart rate decreased
markedly by 240 min (p < 0.05), while mean arterial
blood pressure decreased markedly by 30 min (p < 0.05)
and remained depressed throughout the experiment. CO
decreased markedly by 30 min (p < 0.05).

Regional Blood Flow Changes

The distribution of cardiac output per gram wet tissue
(%CO/g) to various tissues is shown in Figure 2. Initially,
the %CO/g to the kidneys, liver, and cervix increased,
while that to other gastrointestinal tissues decreased. The
%CO/g to the adrenals decreased by 30 min and remained
unchanged for approximately 180 min.

The changes in blood flow (%CO) to various tissues are
shown in Figure 3. Blood flow to wet tissues increased
markedly by 240 min. The kidneys, trachea, and intestines
were observed at 240 min.