Hospital Practice 5/3: 78, 80, 81, & 85—March 1970

The Framingham Study
and Chronic Disease Prevention

WILLIAM B. KANNEL National Heart and Lung Institute

Undertaken to clarify the precipitors of coronary disease—a task admirably carried out through its definition of “coronary risk profiles”—Framingham has also demonstrated the potential of the long-term, prospective study in unraveling the causes of other chronic illnesses. Among those on which its findings have shed considerable light are stroke, diabetes, arthritis, cholecystitis, and emphysema.

The physician lives in a sick world. For example, almost every laboratory slip in the hospital seems to show “albinuria” and every third patient on cardiac rounds seems to have atrial fibrillation. There is little time to remember—or find out—how uncommon such findings really are in the general population. It is thus possible to obtain a distorted picture of the evolution of chronic disease when dealing only with symptomatic patients under medical care.

In a monitored community population, on the other hand, albinuria and atrial fibrillation are rare, and errors in perspective derived from preoccupation solely with the seriously ill can be overcome. We who have been associated with the coronary heart disease study in Framingham, Mass., have been fortunate in this respect; we have had 5,000 teachers—the study population. Coming from a world in which the cardinal sin is to miss something,

the newcomer clinical investigator confronted with the general population initially tends to suspect every chest pain is angina pectoris. The oldtimers tell him to settle down, that not every pain in the chest is true angina. In fact, only a fraction actually turns out to be ischemic in origin.

Framingham’s teaching has extended far beyond the limits of that small Boston suburb. It has given American physicians a broader concept of the natural history of cardiovascular disease, including its latent, presymptomatic phase. Framingham has helped to define factors that identify vulnerable persons as they way to symptomatic disease and the faulty life-style and personal attributes that predispose or contribute to coronary attacks. Indices of suspicion have been refined into “coronary risk profiles” that allow greater precision in estimating risk. The ingredients of this coronary profile are such factors