A Psychopharmacological and Psychophysiological
Evaluation of Smoking Motives

Rico Nil

Im Hoelderzù 30
CH-8046 Zurich
Switzerland

ABSTRACT

Compared to alcohol or opiate dependence, the physical withdrawal symptoms which occur with the cessation of the tobacco habit are relatively weak, although they can produce discomfort. Long-term abstinence rates, how-ever, remain similarly low. This raises the question about the nature of the strength of this habit. 
When evaluating complex mechanisms concerning smoking behavior and its determinants, a surprisingly large variety of pharmacological and nonpharmacological motives emerges. These appear to outweigh the health-related arguments for abstinence in the majority of smokers. 
An attempt has been made to categorize classes of motives according to their positive or negative reinforcing properties in the habit. The acute tobacco withdrawal syndrome, problems with of craving after cessation and the phenomenon of relapse are classified as primarily negative reinforcers. Effects of smoking on cognitive functions and on “pleasures” are seen as primarily positive reinforcers. In conjunction with stress, the tranquilizing effects of smoking were to have negative reinforcing properties in situations involving passive coping and anxiety. Whereas smoking may have positive reinforcing effects in situations involving active coping.

Reprint requests:
Rico Nil
Im Hoelderzù 30
CH-8046 Zurich
Switzerland



It is suggested that the memory of these reinforcing effects of smoking can contribute to the phenomenon of craving. Although substantially reduced after discontinuation of the smoking habit, craving may exacerbate and contribute significantly to late relapse.

INTRODUCTION

For almost 30 years tobacco smoking has been recognized as an important health risk factor. This is most particularly true for respiratory diseases but also for diseases of the cardiovascular system. Therefore, in many industrialized countries major efforts have been made to in-cline smoking prevention and cessation programs. On the other hand, scientific research programs designed to investigate the underlying mechanisms of the smoking habit have been much less prominent. 
As a result a number of programs in aid of special smoking cessation clinics have been developed, representing a wide range of approaches and “philosophies”, but with the exception of pharmacological treatment approaches often lacking a scientific basis. They reach from suggestive treatments to purely pharmacolog-ical substitution therapy using nicotine or substitutes therefore being older nicotine substitutes: nicotine-containing gum [17, 115], nasal nicotine [172, 173], transdermal nicotine [164], a nicotine parellel to be in as under illusion for oral nicotine, even simple approaches such.



LS16072b