American Heart Journal

September, 1980, Volume 100, Number 3

Editorial

Smoking and coronary heart disease: what are we to believe?

Carl C. Selzer, Ph.D.*
Cambridge, Mass.

Two recent events have raised serious questions as to what we to believe about the conventional view that cigarette smoking is a cause of coronary heart disease (CHD).

Interpretation of ex-smoker data

The first event relates to the interpretation of ex-smoker data indicating that CHD mortality rates of persons who stopped smoking are substantially lower than those of persons who continue smoking. The interpretation given to these data is that smoking cessation directly results in a reduction of risk of heart disease mortality. The most commonly cited investigations in support of this line of thinking are the observational studies of Doll and Hill’s British doctors, Hammond’s American men and women, and Kahn’s U.S. veterans, and the Framingham Study. Underlying this alleged CHD benefit, however, is the assumption that ex-smokers are representative samples of smokers, except in so far as they have stopped smoking, but the proof of the validity of this assumption has not been forthcoming. This is a crucial point in the comparison of the CHD outcomes in the two smokings groups and if the significance of baseline differences are observed between ex-smokers and smokers for relevant factors, then the possibility

*Present affiliation: Abt Assoc., Inc., Boston, Mass.

exists that the mortality comparison of ex-smok-
ers and continuing smokers is biased.

For the first time in a very large series of subjects according to race and sex, we observed the proper baseline for the determination of whether or not ex-smokers were a representative sample of smokers. This baseline involved the study of the CHD-related characteristics of ex-
smokers before they stopped smoking and their comparison with those of continuing smokers. The results of this study are briefly reviewed below.

Using the longitudinal records from the Kaiser Permanente multiple health checkups, the study compared 35 CHD-related characteristics of ex-smokers before they stopped smoking with those of persistent smokers and nonsmokers. A total of more than 26,000 subjects, white men and women, black men and women, with three or more consecutive health checkups formed the basis of the analysis. For the criteria of the classification of the subjects “designated as ex-
amination,” the reader is referred to the publication*. The minimum of order or more examinations was used in order to insure a rigorous classification of patients at categories. Thus, we had at least one examination were subject’s smokers (smoking) were observed. We also required smokers (ex-smokers) were subjects who had stopped smoking before completion of their initial checkup. The complete classification into which the respective groups fell is shown in Table 1.

TABLE 1. Classification of Subjects According to Smoking History*

[Table data not included]

*See reference 2.

AHA 80-379