Advances in Brief

Chromosomal Mapping of Members of the cdc2 Family of Protein Kinases, cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, and PITAIRE, and a cdk Inhibitor, p27kip1,
to Regions Involved in Human Cancer¹

Florence Bellisle, Timothy J. Maclachlan, Nianni Song, Teresa Druck, Maria Luisa Levenson, Steven I. Allen,
Nicholas Chiorazii, Andrew Koff, Jay Heubner, Carlo M. Croce, and Antonio Giordano²

Jefferson Cancer Center and Department of Microbiology, Thomas Jefferson University (Florence Bellisle, Timothy J. Maclachlan, Nianni Song, Teresa Druck, Maria Luisa Levenson, Steven I. Allen, Nicholas Chiorazii, Andrew Koff, Jay Heubner, Carlo M. Croce, and Antonio Giordano), and
Molecular Oncology Institute, Medical Scientist Research Center, New York, NY 10021 (Florence Bellisle, Steven I. Allen, and Antonio Giordano)

Abstract

Orderly progression through the cell cycle requires sequential activation and inactivation of cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks). This is achieved in part by association of cdks with regulatory subunits, such as cyclins, and inactivation of cyclin-cdk complexes by a rep-
idity growing number of cdk inhibitors. We report here the chromosomal mapping of several cdk family members and mediators of tumorigenesis has become a subject of increased interest. Here we
report the chromosomal localization of cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, two positive orbits, PISSLRE, and PITAIRE, and one cdk inhibitors, p27kip1,
using monochromosome hybridization. These genes are also involved in human tumors and contain their possible involvement may be shared by
other genes. We have mapped these genes to chromosomes 17q23, 17p13, 16p13, and 6p21 respectively. PISSLRE is located near the region of
PITAIRE is shown to cluster at a locus selectively aberrant in human tumors.

Introduction

The orderly progression through the cell cycle requires sequential activation and inactivation of cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks) (1, 2). This is achieved in part by association of cdks with regulatory subunits, such as cyclins, and inactivation of cyclin-cdk complexes by a rapidly growing number of cdk inhibitors (3, 4). The precise regulation of cdk activity is essential for normal cell growth and differentiation. Dysregulation of cdk activity has been implicated in a variety of human diseases, including cancer (5).

The chromosomal mapping of genes involved in tumorigenesis has become a subject of increased interest (6). We have used monochromosome hybridization to map several cdk family members and mediators of tumorigenesis. Monochromosome hybridization is a powerful technique that allows for the precise localization of genes to specific regions of chromosomes (7, 8).

We report here the chromosomal localization of cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, PITAIRE, and p27kip1. These genes are also involved in human tumors and contain their possible involvement may be shared by other genes. We have mapped these genes to chromosomes 17q23, 17p13, 16p13, and 6p21 respectively. PISSLRE is located near the region of chromosome 17 that is frequently amplified in human tumors (9). PITAIRE is shown to cluster at a locus selectively aberrant in human tumors.

Materials and Methods

Monochromosome Hybridization

Monochromosome hybridization was performed as described previously (7, 8). Briefly, monochromosomes were prepared from cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells. DNA probes corresponding to cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, PITAIRE, and p27kip1 were generated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of human genomic DNA. The PCR products were labeled with biotin-dUTP using a commercially available kit.

Chromosomal metaphase spreads from human lymphocytes were treated with RNase A to remove RNA. The biotinylated DNA probes were hybridized to the chromosomal metaphases, and the hybridization signals were detected using avidin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate. The chromosomes were counterstained with DAPI.

Results

Chromosomal Localization of cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, PITAIRE, and p27kip1

The chromosomal locations of cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, PITAIRE, and p27kip1 are shown in Table 1. cdk3 was mapped to chromosome 17q23. cdk6 was mapped to chromosome 17p13. PISSLRE was mapped to chromosome 16p13. PITAIRE was mapped to chromosome 6p21. p27kip1 was mapped to chromosome 6p21.

Table 1. Chromosomal Localization of cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, PITAIRE, and p27kip1

Gene	Chromosome
cdk3	17q23
cdk6	17p13
PISSLRE	16p13
PITAIRE	6p21
p27kip1	6p21

Discussion

The chromosomal mapping of cdk family members and mediators of tumorigenesis is important for understanding the genetic basis of cancer. The localization of these genes to specific regions of chromosomes can provide insights into their roles in tumorigenesis.

cdk3 has been found to cull, the highly cdc2-related cdk3 does not have a known cyclin partner. Nevertheless it is able to restore growth to
cdk6 mutants, as well as to arrest cells in G1 in an overexpression-dependent manner (14). The cdk6/cyclin D1 complex is thought to be one of the first cyclin-cdk complexes to appear in the cell cycle and is involved in driving cells from Gl to S phase (15). Recent abnormalities in chromosome 17q23 have been observed in a variety of human tumors (reviewed in Ref. 17). In addition, cdk6, which associates with D cyclin, has been mapped to chromosome 17p13 (18), and is frequently amplified in malignant lymphoma cells, thus suggesting that the involvement of the MIM/MCM2-6 region on chromosome 17q23 may be related to the amplification of cdk6.

PISSLRE is located near a region of chromosome 16p13 that is frequently deleted in human tumors (19). PITAIRE is shown to cluster at a locus selectively aberrant in human tumors. The involvement of these genes in tumorigenesis warrants further investigation.

The chromosomal mapping of p27kip1 to chromosome 6p21 is consistent with previous reports (20). p27kip1 is a cdk inhibitor that plays a critical role in regulating the cell cycle. Loss of p27kip1 expression has been observed in a variety of human tumors (21), and may contribute to tumor progression.

Conclusion

We have mapped the chromosomal locations of cdk3, cdk6, PISSLRE, PITAIRE, and p27kip1 using monochromosome hybridization. These genes are also involved in human tumors and contain their possible involvement may be shared by other genes. The localization of these genes to specific regions of chromosomes can provide insights into their roles in tumorigenesis.

¹ This work was supported by grants from the National Cancer Institute, CA 58317, and the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.
² To whom reprint requests should be addressed at Jefferson Cancer Center and Department of Microbiology, Thomas Jefferson University, 233 S. 10th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107.



