Ctr Acknowledged
D. B. Cohen

Improved Isolation of Rat Lung Alveolar Type II Cells

More Representative Recovery and Retention of Cell Polarity

2868

NANCY K. WELLER, PH.D., and
MORRIS J. KARNOWSKY, MBBC, DSC

From the Department of Pathology, Harvard School
Busse, Massachusetts

We have developed an improved isolation procedure for
rat lung alveolar type II cells (ATII) which yields a more
representative sample of ATII cells with respect to their
morphology and function. The method provides a density
gradient product of approximately the complex class
of ATII cells, enriched in those that are relatively free of
contaminating macrophages and lymphocytes from this
fraction, the ATII cells have leukocyte common antigen (LC)

on their surfaces, whereas the ATII cells do not. Our pro-
cedure yields 2–10 × 10^6 ATII cells per rat in a function
which can be readily assessed by biochemical or physio-
logical or pharmacological analysis and represent a
significant improvement over previous methods. The den-
sity gradient. The cells retain their in vitro morphologic
characteristics, including their polarity (Am J Pathol
1986, 122:92–100)

PULMONARY alveolar type II (ATII) cells synthesize
surfactant and, prior to secretion, store it intracellularly
in lamellar bodies.1-3 Surfactant is a complex of
lipids and proteins which, after it is secreted, coats the
interface between the air and the surface components
of the alveoli and lowers the surface tension as
the alveoli can be expanded during inflation4-7.
The respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants 8, 9
allows for the cells which can lead to deaths with ATII
cells are also important in adult animal models
(ATII) -cells10, 11 It is important to this ATII cell
function and it is important to learn more about
the biochemistry and physiology of the lamellar bodies
40 types of ATII cells.12-15 To facilitate these studies,
we have developed a procedure designed to isolate ATII
cells from rat lungs in pure form.16 The method pro-
duces a density gradient product enriched in ATII cells
and relatively free of macrophages and lymphocytes.

The ATII cells obtained by this procedure retain their
morphology and function in vitro, and they can be used
for biochemical or physiological studies.17 In addition,
the ATII cells are readily identified by their ability to
synthesize surfactant.18-20

Previous methods for isolating ATII cells have been
limited by the low yield of cells, the presence of con-
taminating macrophages and lymphocytes, and the lack
of a means to assess the function of the isolated cells.21
The method described here overcomes these limitations.
The procedure, therefore, in the interests of purity and at
the same time yields most macrophage cells.21 Some
isolation procedures rely on antibody-mediated or den-
sity gradient adsorption techniques or solely rely on
differential adhesion in tissue culture to remove the re-
maining macrophages and the lymphocytes.22-24 The use
of density gradients is a potential problem, in that
the biochemical and pharmacological features of the cells
may be altered in vitro25

We have developed an isolation procedure that is
change in initial selection of almost the complete den-
sity gradient fraction of ATII cells. To achieve this con-
stituents the method we employed, the density gradi-
ent is collected in 10 fractions and the fractions are re-
combined to obtain a product enriched in ATII cells.
The procedure yields 2–10 × 10^6 ATII cells per rat,
which can be readily assessed by biochemical or physio-
logical or pharmacological analysis and represent a sig-
nificant improvement over previous methods. The den-
sity gradient. The cells retain their in vitro morphologic
characteristics, including their polarity (Am J Pathol
1986, 122:92–100)

Materials and Methods

Rat Lungs—Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (250–350 g)
were obtained from BioResearch. Inc., Feltham, UK. The
rats were killed by an overdose of pentobarbital sodium.

Lung Homogenization—The lungs were lavaged with 5 ml
of cold Hanks’ balanced salt solution (HBSS), pH 7.4,
containing 10 mM Hepes buffer and 1 mM EDTA. The
lungs were then minced and homogenized in 5 ml of HBSS
with a Potter-Elvehjem homogenizer.

Density Gradient Centrifugation—The lung homogenate
was diluted to a final volume of 20 ml with HBSS con-
taining 10 mM Hepes buffer and 1 mM EDTA. The
homogenate was then layered over a density gradient
composed of 45% (w/v) OptiPrep (Nycomed, Pharma-
cia Fine Chemicals, Oslo, Norway) in HBSS with 10 mM
Hepes buffer and 1 mM EDTA. The gradients were cen-
trifuged at 20°C for 30 minutes at 500g using a swing-
out rotor.

Fraction Collection—After centrifugation, the density
gradient was fractionated by collecting 1-ml fractions
from the top to the bottom of the gradient. The fractions
were pooled based on their ability to synthesize surfactant.

Cell Counting and Viability—The cell number in each
fraction was determined using a hemocytometer. Cell vi-
ability was assessed by trypan blue exclusion.

Immunofluorescence Staining—Fractions were cytocentri-
fuged, fixed in acetone, and stained for leukocyte com-
mon antigen (LC) using fluorescein-conjugated anti-LC
monoclonal antibody (Becton Dickinson Immuno-
cytometry Systems, Mountain View, CA). The cells were
examined by fluorescence microscopy.

Results

Identification of ATII Cells—ATII cells are readily
identified by their ability to synthesize surfactant.

Discussion

The method described here overcomes the limitations of
previous methods for isolating ATII cells.