NEWS RELEASE APPENDIX A

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20580

OFFICE OF INFORMATION 393-6200 Ext. 197

For RELEASE: IMMEDIATE, Thursday, May 22, 1969

ADVERTISING File No. 692 3254

The Federal Trade Commission today announced its determination to issue a complaint under its consent order procedure charging violations of law by The American
Tobacco Co., 245 Park Ave., New York City.

(NOTE—A complaint is issued whenever the Commission has found “reason to believe” that the law has been violated and that a proceeding is in the public interest. The issuance of a complaint does not indicate or reflect any adjudication of the matters charged.)

The FTC’s complaint says that, "Respondent is now, and for some time last past
has been, engaged in the advertising, sale and distribution of cigarette-a including
brands designated “Pall Mall Gold” 100’s, “Pall Mall Menthol” 100’s, and “Lucky
Strike” cigarettes.”

“In the course and conduct of its aforesaid business, and for the purpose of
inducing the purchase of said cigarettes, the respondent has made, and is now making
numerous statements and representations in advertising including, but not limited to,
advertisements broadcast on radio and television and inserted in magazines, newspapers
and other advertising media with respect to the tar content of said cigarettes.” ***

The complaint alleges that, by use of these statements and by “failing to
disclose facts which are material in the light of these statements and which consumers
need to make an informed judgment,” respondent has represented and created the
impression that its cigarettes are low in tar when in truth and in fact its Pall Mall
Gold 100’s and Lucky Strike cigarettes contain approximately 20 and 21 milligrams of tar,
amounts which rank 56th and 77th higher among the 121 brands tested than
the contraband to lowest tar level of 4 milligrams.”

The complaint charges that, “by representing its cigarettes as being low in tar
when in fact they contain five times the amount of tar found in the runnest yielding a
brand tested and work alone a misleading a thereby spectrum running from a tar
content as high as 21.5 milligrams, respondent has engaged in and practiced
deception.”

Commission’s Executive Summary:

The complaint alleges that American Tobacco Co. is in violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by making false or misleading statements in advertising; failing to disclose material facts; and engaging in deceptive sales practices.

American Tobacco Co. is further alleged to have violated the law by:
1. Making false and misleading representations concerning the tar content of its “Pall Mall Gold” 100’s, “Pall Mall Menthol” 100’s, and “Lucky Strike” cigarettes.
2. Failing to disclose that these cigarettes contain approximately 20-21 milligrams of tar per cigarette.
3. Representing that these cigarettes are "low in tar.”

The complaint seeks an order restraining American Tobacco Co. from making false or misleading statements in advertising; requiring it to disclose the tar content of its cigarettes; and prohibiting it from engaging in deceptive sales practices.

6930157