PRESENTATION TO NATIONAL COMMISSION ON SMOKING AND PUBLIC POLICY
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY, INC.
March 22, 1977

The City of Manteca is a fairly typical California city located in the San Joaquin Valley approximately 50 miles south of Sacramento along Interstate Route 99. The City with its population of approximately 18,000 in 1977 is unique only to the disproportionate number of young people. Thirty-eight (38) percent of this total is under the age of 18 years. The median age of a Mantecan is 25½ years contrasted to 46½ years for our sister City of Tracy ten miles to the West. The City of Manteca’s social-ethnic composition is best illustrated by its 47 percent white classification and its median income which was in the 1970 census the second highest in the County. The City is served by four elementary schools and two high schools.

The smoking issue in Manteca was first brought to light by a request of the high school administrative officials to the School Board asking for permission to designate an on-campus smoking location. School officials cited the irritation to the entire student body caused by the amount of smoke collected in the high school rest rooms.

The Parent-Teachers Association responded with opposition to the designation of an on-campus smoking area. Through the efforts of the Parent-Teachers Association and in particularly the leadership of Mrs. Wadlin-Ather and Mrs. Kenneth Bedwell, the Board of Education declined to designate such an area and in turn asked support from the community at large to join in the control of this ever increasing problem of young people and cigarettes.

The City quickly realized the smoking problem to be of a community-wide interest and that if any progress could be made to curtail the use of cigarettes, effort must be expended by parents, school district officials and the local government.

The causes of emotional pressure commonly to scientists and teachers for many years. The smoking habit were obviously identified as poor results and the normal desire to attain adult status were recognized as the cause behind this dangerous type of practice. It must be 12 year old children are acquiring such habits, but their parents often do not realize the elementaries’ sincere danger to our young men and women.

Through past effort it was work of American Cancer Society, the carcinogenic effects from cigarette smoking is well known. The data available to us shows that through the past 1959 efforts we have been able to obtain a considerable amount of other gruesome statistics which will be presented at this time.

The City of Manteca has joined with other cities in San Joaquin County in sponsoring a program called “Operation Smokescreen” designed to educate young people and their parents regarding the dangers of smoking. This program is sponsored by the San Joaquin County Medical Society, the California Heart Association and the American Cancer Society.

We have also been working closely with our school district officials in developing a comprehensive health education program which will include instruction on the dangers of cigarette smoking. We feel that this type of program is essential if we are to successfully combat the ever increasing problem of young people and cigarettes.

67018359