SPEECH PRESENTED BY: Mr. Edwin P. Finch
President
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation

PLACE: Speedway Motel
Indianapolis, Indiana

DATE: December 14, 1971

Gentlemen:

I am happy to be here in Indianapolis with all of you tonight. I have particularly enjoyed meeting and listening to you, because I admit to very little knowledge about automobile racing. Let me, therefore, touch on two subjects I am more familiar with; Brown & Williamson and the marketing of cigarettes.

In the past twenty years, we have had the good fortune to see our brands steadily increase in sales and to have our company move into a leading position in the cigarette industry.

Our leading brands are VICEROY, KOOL, RALEIGH, and BELAIR cigarettes, and SIR WALTER RALEIGH smoking tobacco. We also have a number of new brands in either the concept or test marketing stage, and we hope you will be hearing more about some of them very soon.

Now let me tell you briefly about VICEROY and the reasons we have decided to enter the world of racing.

It has never been easy to market and sell cigarettes, and with government restrictions, it has become even tougher. Even though we have these restrictions, we want advertising that sells VICEROY for what it is; a full flavored cigarette for young adult smokers. And, of course, we want advertising that captures the attention and interest of young adult smokers. Capturing attention and interest is easy to talk about, but much harder to do. We looked at a variety of alternatives. As we did, we came gradually to the realization that car racing and drivers have what we want. Here is an exciting, growing sport with active, moving people. Here is a sport with moments of high drama that can be caught in a picture. And here is a sport with a central character; the driver, whose skills are tested constantly under pressure. Therefore, we have developed an advertising campaign centered on auto racing.

Our decision to move into championship racing was a continuation and extension of VICEROY’s advertising theme, and we started to look at ways of sponsoring a major racing team.