SIMILARITY SMOKING TEST

The purpose of this test is to check out another similarity 'test design.

Your participation today will involve about 65 minutes and your sampling of 8 pairs
of tasted full-flavor type cigarettes. All smoking will be done at a place as
your schedule allows. Please remember that there are no right or wrong answers;
you are an individual with your own ways of experiencing and comparing things.

If possible, please refrain from smoking for at least 15 minutes before smoking
any pair of cigarettes in the test. Please use only one means to light your
test cigarettes; e.g., if you begin using book matches, continue using book
matches. Also, each smoker on your floor is participating in this test if
possible, try not to interrupt persons if they are in the middle of test smoking.

The cigarettes involved in this test are the same four you smoked earlier this
week (1, 2, 3 and 4). This time you need only be acquainted with the "range"
of each flavor; you do not have to retain a mental picture of each of the four.
One each of cigarettes 1, 2, 3 and 4 are provided if you need to re-orient
yourself with the “range”.

When you are ready, smoke the pair of cigarettes labeled α. Then, keeping in
mind the range of the cigarettes involved in this test (1, 2, 3 and 4), make a
mark somewhere across the FIRST line on to the next page to indicate how similar
you judge the cigarette in Pair A to be to each other. If, for example, you
judge the difference between the cigarettes in Pair A to be comparable to the
largest difference experienced among cigarettes 1, 2, 3 and 4, you would put
your mark near the “completely different” end of the line. If the difference
seems intermediate, then your mark could be somewhere intermediate between
the "exact same" and "completely different." If you judge cigarette A and B to
be very similar relative to the range of cigarettes 1, 2, 3 and 4, your answer
could be near “exact same.”

During the course of today, smoke the remaining pairs (β-i) and record your
judgments on the next pages.



508/SDS/7