APPENDIX B

ACTION SMOKING & HEALTH
2000 H St., N.W. Washington D.C. 20006 (202) 659-4310

TESTIMONY OF PROFESSOR JOHN Y. BANSHAW III, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CHIEF COUNSEL OF
ACTION ON SMOKING AND HEALTH, BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION, OCTOBER 11, 1977

The technique of calling for more research and study as a means of
delaying needed regulations -- often called "studying the problem to death" -- is well
known in the Nation’s capitol. It is serious enough when used as a tactic by the industry
seeking to continue its illegal conduct, and resisted with varying degrees of success
by the agency charged with protecting the public. But it is disastrous and also inexcusable
when the very agency charged by Congress with protecting the public interest by enacting
and enforcing the regulations itself continues to duck the issue either by the sham of
calling for Congressional action, or by the more insidious technique of insisting that
additional studies are needed before any effective action can be taken.

Based upon the Commission’s failure to take any effective action during the
past several years, and information obtained both from within and without the Commission,
Action on Smoking and Health believes and fears that the so-called “Fishbein Report,”
which comprises over 90% of the F.T.C.’s report to Congress [not including tables of tar
and nicotine content], is nothing but a transparent gimmick to justify its past inaction
and to provide a basis for failing to take action now and in the foreseeable future—
Needless to say, ASH opposes any such delay founded on the spurious and misleading argument
that more research is needed before any effective action can be taken. In this testimony
we will indicate why we are led to this view of the Fishbein report, and why even the
Fishbein report itself supports hard-hitting regulatory action now without more needless
delay. We will also respectfully indicate how in our view the F.T.C. has managed to tie
its own hands by subscribing to certain clearly erroneous beliefs as to its function and
its method of operation. Finally, to make this point perfectly clear and to avoid any
further excuses that delay for further research is unavoidable, we will outline several
actions which the F.T.C. can and should take now, without more delay, and for which
no additional research is necessary.

1