Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, Members of the 86th General Assembly, my fellow constitutional officers, honored guests and my fellow citizens.

Today, I propose a budget that is the result of our rebounding economy and two years of belt-tightening, a “fiscal fitness” regimen that strengthened our ability to pay our bills on time but also sapped our ability to provide needed funding for education and human services.

Today we see the results of that regimen. We will be able to pay our bills on time for essential services and meet most in need. The backing of income refunds can be reduced, and seniors again can expect to receive promised Circuit Breaker relief on time.

This budget is in a far better position than any it has been years. It is a muscular budget, neither miniaturized nor bloated with fat. It has the strength to lead us into the 90s and get a fast start in the world marathon for high tech jobs and increased exports.

While it does not fund all of the services needed by our citizens and does not provide all of the money needed for our educational system, it does bring welcomed improvements that will be seen and felt throughout state.

Our schools -- the brains and the brawn of the Illinois economy -- have sustained on a low-cal diet of State funding. This budget puts meat and potatoes back on the menu. -- a district improvement, one that sets Illinois education on the road to a comeback.

This budget proposes $11.6 billion in total appropriations. General fund revenues from existing tax sources will be up an effective $507 million, plus 417 million from the new cigarette tax. We have been able to reach that point largely because of an improved State economy and job growth.

Nine years ago, the growth of personal income for Illinoisians was such low that the growth rate itself disappeared. Unemployment has virtually disappeared. And last month, Illinois’ unemployment rate fell below 5 percent for the first time since October 1977. Total employment has reached an all-time high five and one-half million Illinoisans taking home paychecks.

Economist forecasters tell us to expect a muted slowdown of the U.S. economy, with increasing interest rates dampening inflation. Illinois’ performance will vary this slowdown will result in a job growth trend if they are correct, the national pattern will mirror.

However, this budget helps stand your fight that predicted strain by doing more than ever before for education, for our infrastructure and for our commitment to take technological improvements into Illinois.

We will do more than ever before to help small, protect pensions and assist communities in need. And we will dare to invest in the future of Illinois – a future where every child has access to quality education, where every worker has the opportunity to earn a good wage, and where every family can live in a safe and healthy environment.



Mar. 1 1989 14:02 P.03