The Tobacco Institute

1751 Street, Northwest
Washington, DC 20006
(800) 424-9876

FOR RELEASE: CONTACT:
June 8, 1988 Brennan Moran
9:00 a.m. 202/457-4877
800/424-9876

MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS OF
SOUND CONGRESSIONAL POLICY SUPPORTED

Statutory Scheme of Uniform Labels
Assures Integrity at a National Level

WASHINGTON, D.C., In testimony before a House Subcommittee today, representatives
of The Tobacco Institute urged that the sound policy now in place not be tampered
with by repealing the national standard for health warnings on cigarettes.

Former Congressman Charles O. Whitley, speaking for The Tobacco Institute, called on
the Subcommittee on Transportation, Tourism, and Hazardous Materials to reject
pending legislation which would destroy the “comprehensive Federal program”
currently operating through provisions of the Federal Cigarette Labeling
and Advertising Act (the Act).

NEWS RELEASE

Beginning in 1965, Mr. Whitley said, Congress determined that standard warnings,
uniform throughout the country, of the reported hazards of smoking should be placed
on cigarette packages. He noted that under that policy Congress has twice changed
the warning and has added a mandate that it appear in all cigarette brand
advertisements.

As stated in the Act, this uniformity prevents “diverse, nonuniform, and confusing
cigarette labeling and advertising regulations.”

Mr. Whitley told the Subcommittee that, "by repealing the provisions now found in
Section 5 of the Act, Congress would be inviting State and local governments and
regulatory bodies to impose diverse, nonuniform, and confusing cigarette labeling and
advertising regulations that it has precluded for more than twenty years." Such a
move would “destroy the integrity of a national uniform standard,” Whitley said.

Mr. Whitley asked that a prepared statement by Gerald M. Goldhaber, Chairman of the
Department of Communication at the State University of New York at Buffalo, be
included for the record. Reading from Dr. Goldhaber’s statement, Mr. Whitley
indicated the overwhelming awareness level of 99 percent that the American public has
of the charge that cigarette smoking is dangerous. Dr. Goldhaber's statement
compares this to various other awareness levels, ranging from a 1972 Publicis poll
disclosing that 70 percent of the people had heard of the Watergate break-in to a
1984 survey by the National Opinion Research Center finding only 38 percent of the
American people knew what “arms limitation” is. The conclusion drawn is that "the level
of awareness regarding cigarette smoking danger is significantly higher than that of
virtually any other public issue.”

2021549123