MODELING

J. Blankinship

The definition of Artificial Intelligence (AI) as a group of related technologies which share a common theme - that of mimicking human reasoning or sensing - suggests that AI can contribute to one’s understanding of how the chemical senses interact with the external environment and with internal cognitive processes. So, in response to the question: Is there Artificial Intelligence in chemical sensing? – the answer is a “definite maybe.”

To get right to the point, there are two areas in which techniques from AI can contribute to an understanding of the chemical senses. It turns out that both of these areas involve a form of AI called neural networks. The first area is the application of neurocomputing in the development of artificial olfactory systems. This includes research conducted by Nakamoto and Morizumi at the Tokyo Institute of Technology in the development of artificial odor sensors, which consist of a quartz-resonator array with different coating materials whose oscillation frequencies change when certain molecules are adsorbed onto its surface. The resulting patterns are then recognized by a neural network to help identify the odor. Freeman and Burke at the University of California, Berkeley are conducting research into using neural networks for pattern recognition of the EEG activity at the olfactory bulb, and are also developing artificial neural models of olfaction. This first area is mentioned mostly for the sake of completeness. The second area, which will be the focus of my talk, is using the data mapping capabilities of neural networks to help understand chemical sensing data.

A neural network is a self-adapting, parallel, distributed information processing structure that is loosely based on the interconnected web of neurons in the brain. Most neural networks, particularly those called mapping networks, can be more easily described as statistical mapping or machine learning techniques which are inspired by the arrangement of neurons in the brain. This is a generic picture of what a neural network looks like. Instead of neurons in the brain, we have these nodes of a directed graph that are called processing elements. Analogous to the synapses between neurons in the brain, the processing elements are linked by unidirectional information channels called connections. These connections can have mathematical data types, and they may also be weighted - so that, if, for example, the output of this PE is 4 and the weight on this connection is 0.2, then the input value to that PE is 0.8. There are two main operating grounds for a neural network: (1) a processing element may have multiple input connections, but can generate only a single output, and (2) all processing elements in a processing element must be completely local. The functioning of a processing element is basically this: Solely as a function of the current values of its inputs and some local memory values, it computes a number. That single number becomes the output of the processing element. That output can then serve as an input

- BI -