FTC NEWS

Federal Trade Commission Washington, D.C. 20580

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 13, 1983

FTC DETERMINES ITC SMOKING MACHINE
DOES NOT ACCURATELY TEST BARCLAY'S
"TAR," NICOTINE AND CARBON MONOXIDE

Commission Seeking Public Comment
On Possible New Testing Procedures

Barclay cigarettes’ manufacturer, Commission Brown & Williamson Tobacco
Co., may not use the Federal Trade Commission’s current test
results to substantiate claims for Barclay’s “tar,” nicotine and
carbon monoxide content, the FTC announced today. In a Federal
Register notice published, the FTC says it has determined
Barclays deliver more “tar,” nicotine and carbon monoxide than
the Commission's current testing program now indicates. Indepen-
dent consultants believe Barclay 80s and 85s, which the current
method rank as 1 mg. “tar” cigarettes, actually range from 3 to 7
mg. “tar.”

The Commission initially announced its finding on June 25,
1982. Brown & Williamson obtained an injunction prohibiting the
FTC from taking any action on its finding, and in particular from
publishing a Federal Register notice asking for comments on
proposals to modify the present testing methodology. The U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit lifted the lower court
injunction on April 1, to permit publication of today’s notice.

The Federal Register notice also says the Commission has
determined “there is a significant likelihood” that the current
test method does not assess accurately the company's Kool Ultra
and Kool Ultra 100s, which use the same Actron filter design as
Barclay.

Barclay’s filter "possesses a unique problem," the Commission
says. Most “tar” cigarettes have a band of perforated holes
in their filters so that air can mix with smoke inhaled.  Barclays'
design has four ventilation channels connecting these holes,
directly to the mouth end of the filter; some air and smoke are
mixed in part with not in the filter. With Barclays smokers at
least partially block these channels, reducing the amount of “tar.”
But the filters the smoking machine increases the delivery of "tar."
That due to cigarette design thus is not involved in testing
suppose for this test.

(More)