FTC NEWS

Federal Trade Commission Washington, D.C. 20580

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 25, 1962

BARCLAY CIGARETTES' "TAR," NICOTINE AND CARBON MONOXIDE HIGHER THAN MEASURED BY CURRENT FTC TESTS

Agency Asks for Comment on Test Changes

Barclay cigarettes deliver more "tar," nicotine and carbon monoxide than measured by the agency’s current testing program, the Federal Trade Commission announced today. As a result, the Commission informed Brown and Williamson Tobacco Corp., manufacturer of Barclay, that it cannot rely on the FTC test method to substantiate claims that Barclay delivers only “1 mg tar.”

The Commission's unanimous vote was based on reports of three independent consultants and extensive material provided by Brown and Williamson and other cigarette companies. Although they were not able to provide a precise estimate, the FTC consultants believed that Barclay 80 and 85s actually deliver between three and seven milligrams of “tar.”

The measurement problem had arisen because Barclay’s filter is unique in its design.

Most low "tar" cigarettes have a band of perforated holes in their filters so air can mix with smoke inside the filter and thus decrease the amount of "tar" the smoker inhales. Barclay's design has four ventilation channels connecting these holes directly to the mouth end of the filter, so smoke and air are mixed in the mouth, not in the filter itself. On the basis of scientific information reviewed, the Commission concluded that these channels are at least partially blocked when people smoke Barclays, reducing the amount of air that dilutes the smoke and thus increasing the delivery of “tar.” The FTC machine is not now equipped to compensate for this new design, the Commission concluded.

There was no allegation that Brown and Williamson had violated the FTC Act by relying on the agency’s previous test results. In addition, the Commission pointed out that Starr and Williamson had cooperated fully with the commission throughout the inquiry.

(Here) 208689030