VORTRAG AM 1.7.95

ELECTROPHYSIOLOGICAL RECORDINGS FROM THE CASSIRION GANGLION IN THE RAT - PROPOSAL

Dear visitors and colleagues!

1. FOLIE "TITLE"

Today I will present the proposal for a new project in the area of sensory research proposed to be done at the university of Erlangen by Prof. Kahl.
It is titled “electrophysiological recordings from the Casserion ganglion in the rat.”

2. FOLIE "OUTLINE"

In my presentation, I will make a few introductory remarks about flavour and smell and I will give you the background about sensory perception of nicotine as well as the status of our research about it. Afterwards I’ll give you the objective of the proposed study, its design and a description of pilot investigations. My presentation will end with a schedule for the project and a summary.

3. FOLIE "INTRODUCTION"

It is generally known that flavour is important for the enjoyment of a cigarette. Flavour is not only taste it is also smell. For the perception of taste the tongue as well as other nerve structures in the mouth cavity are responsible. The smell, that is I think the bigger part related to the airway, mainly to the nose, but also through trachea and lungs is involved.
I will now focus on the nose as a representative organ for two sensory detection systems: for smell, the olfactory system and for the trigeminal system.

The olfactory system for odor detection is located in the upper part of the nose. The olfactory nerves cells form the olfactory mucosa with a ciliated surface and their receptors on these cilia. Odorant molecules bind to these receptors and the information is transferred as a bioelectrical signal via the olfactory nerve to the brain. The trigeminal nerve is also called common chemical sense and is related to its own part of the respiratory nerve in the nose, mainly in its inner layer and the trigeminal region.
This system is responsible for sensations such as pain, touch, cold, heat, or spiciness. A typical irritation is for example the burning of chili pepper. Another feeling in the mouth water or the coolness of menthol. Those sensations can happen overall flavour beer or coke and I will no taste good claims it’s an experience of the product and so on this brings us to nicotine as a component of tobacco.

4. FOLIE "NICOTINE"

Nicotine is a natural alkaloid (3-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl) pyridine) that is contained in the leaves of the tobacco plant.

5. FOLIE “EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN”