OVERVIEW

Over the past three years, Community Event Marketing has provided brand visibility and massive sampling opportunities in highly attended, local grassroots and statewide regional events. The events are multi-branded, general market and multi-ethnic in nature. The brand mix has been tailored to the demographics of the community complying with the brand smoker profile.

We continue to work closely with the various Brand/Event groups to extend presence in community events by offering a non-traditional marketing vehicle.
~35% $6 61%
The 1993 Community Marketing calendar will have a total of 76 events: 50% Marlboro, 34% Benson & Hedges, 5% Virginia Slims - 5% Merit and 5% Parliament. Through these efforts, we plan to reach approximately 26 million consumers.
17.2 M.

In 1993, Community Marketing will focus on events in key brand markets where we can capitalize on high attendance levels by selling product on-site. We will also continue to either create themed interactive activities or sponsor quality attractions at selected events.

Another important element of our 1993 program will be retail tie-ins. Community grassroots events offer Field Sales and Trade Marketing sales and merchandising opportunities at retail, such as:
• redemption of UPC’s on-site
• posters/flyers at retail outlets
• customized event branded incentives

In order to improve brand visibility and upgrade our presentation, we recommend requisitioning additional trailers, tents and indoor exhibits. In addition, we also recommend contracting external event marketing agencies to execute our on-site activities traditionally handled by field sales. The agency (or agencies) would also be responsible for overseeing all store sale activities. (If sales force personnel is authorized, we would be pleased to use them, or their recommended local retailer, rather than work through agencies.)

MISSION

Community Event Marketing’s mission is to continue to build brand equity over an extended period of time, becoming a fabric of the community at the following grassroots events:

20419396