The Tobacco Institute

1875 I Street, Northwest
Washington, DC 20006
(800) 424-9576

FOR RELEASE: CONTACT:
March 25, 1994 Media Relations
9:00 a.m. 202/9387

CIGARETTES HAVE LESS NICOTINE
THAN NATURALLY OCCURS IN UNPROCESSED TOBACCO

All six major U.S. cigarette manufacturers provide statements
to clarify erroneous claims

WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Subcommittee on Health and the Environment today
was told clearly and unequivocally that:

Cigarette manufacturers do not “spike” their cigarettes with nicotine. In fact,
nicotine is lost in the manufacturing process. There is not a single cigarette on the
market in this country today that does not contain less nicotine than is found in the
raw tobacco used in its manufacture.

Cigarette manufacturers do not "manipulate" the level of nicotine in
various brands. Nicotine levels follow “tar” levels – as
manufacturers have reduced “tar” levels and yields over the years to
satisfy changing consumer tastes, nicotine levels and yields have
fallen correspondingly.

Nicotine in the average cigarette today is lower than it has ever been. Between 1954
and 1993, the average nicotine level in cigarettes declined by two-thirds.

It is irresponsible to equate cigarettes with hard drugs. The suggestion that nicotine
is “as addictive as heroin, cocaine and other hard drugs” trivializes the serious
narcotic and other hard drug problems faced by our society.

Speaking for The Tobacco Institute, Charles O. Whitley noted, "Despite the attention that
Dr. Kessler and others are now calling to the issue of nicotine in cigarettes, the fact is that
the cigarette manufacturers have been publicly reporting ‘tar’ and nicotine yields for
advertised brands for over 20 years."

The government has, for years, been aware of the long-standing and well-documented
processes of cigarette production. "During all this time, FDA has never suggested that
cigarettes should be subject to ongoing regulation as a drug.” Yet Dr. Kessler suggests that
the ‘evidence now available’ to FDA could support a different approach." We disagree.
Nothing has occurred during this time to warrant a change," Whitley testified.



24069.477