David Kessler Press Conference

Good morning. I’d like to thank you all for coming, particularly in light of today's inclement weather.

Earlier this year, in a speech at Columbia University, I called nicotine addiction a “pediatric disease.” Today, I’d like to tell you how we can fight that disease.

Children become addicted to nicotine the same way adults do: they start smoking and they can’t stop. Why they choose to smoke, however, is a very different story.

Youngsters are far more impressionable than adults. They’re insecure. They can’t imagine that something they do today might hurt them tomorrow. They simply want to be cool, to fit in, and so they surround themselves with products they believe will help do the trick: the right jeans, popular sneakers and, for tens of thousands of kids, Marlboro or Joe Camel cigarettes.

It's tragic, but kids actually think it’s cool to smoke. But it isn’t cool to become addicted to nicotine. And it isn’t cool to die.

And so today I call on Congress, the tobacco industry and the American people -- those who smoke and those who don’t -- to join me in a vitally important undertaking: to end smoking among our children.

While I hope to be proven wrong, I'm convinced the tobacco industry will be of no help. In fact, I suspect tobacco companies will do everything in their power to see that smoking among young people continues unabated. Youngsters are the tobacco industry’s primary source of new customers, replacing those who either quit or die. Internal documents from tobacco companies describe specific ways to target cigarettes directly at youngsters.

Furthermore, the FDA has uncovered new evidence that tobacco companies control and manipulate nicotine levels in cigarettes. This sinister manipulation has only one purpose: to deliver nicotine in just the right amounts to create and sustain an addiction in the vast majority of smokers.

No, relying on the tobacco industry to police itself will not do. I believe the time has come for the government to get more involved in this vital issue of public health.

Government jurisdiction over cigarettes is ultimately the best approach. But I realize the complexity of asserting federal jurisdiction over cigarettes, and the enormous and gnifex social issues that would be raised if I were to take that step today.

Such a major step is best left to the people’s representatives in Congress. Therefore, I am asking Congress to clearly grant the FDA the authority to regulate cigarettes. I await congressional guidance in this critical area.



2085315