SRD Press Release/First Draft/3-21-96

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                  DRAFT
Tuesday, April 23                                      Contact: Read deButts
                                                           202-898-7833

POPULAR SPORTS FIGURES COME TO WASHINGTON, D.C.,
FOR “SPONSORSHIP RECOGNITION DAY,”
PROTEST GOVERNMENT EFFORTS TO LIMIT SPONSORSHIPS.

Washington, D.C. — Sports and entertainment figures from across the nation converged
on Capitol Hill Tuesday to protest government efforts to limit corporate sponsorship of
sports and entertainment events.

Richard Petty, Pam Shriver, Al Unser Jr., Dale Earnhardt, Billy Ebaugher and Zina Garrison-
Jackson were just some of the notable names in Washington, D.C., today for “Sponsorship
Recognition Day.” The focus of their visit was to oppose efforts by the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) to ban tobacco-brand sponsorship of sports and entertainment
events.

They represent events that are attended by millions of fans and have nearly a billion
dollars of economic impact on host communities. Among the sports and entertainment
events that would be most highly impacted by an FDA ban on tobacco-brand sponsorship
are professional motorsports, rodeo, golf, tennis, bowling, hunting, fishing, music tours
and state fairs.

“I’ve just about seen it all in my career as a driver and team owner in professional auto
racing,” said Richard Petty, a seven-time NASCAR Winston Cup Series champion. “But I
never thought I'd see the day when the federal government was so interested in getting
involved in racing.”

“When I go out to race, I don’t want to be worrying about anything else except winning,"
said Dale Earnhardt, also a seven-time NASCAR Winston Cup Series champion. “Now
when I look in the rear-view mirror, I see the FDA trying to pass everyone. They want to
make decisions for drivers, promoters and fans. Racing grew into a major sport without
any help from government bureaucrats, and they don’t need to step in now and try to tear
it down.”

- more -

2/4/9618