NEW YORK TAVERN & RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION

25 Elk Street Albany, NY 12207 (518) 436-8121 FAX (518) 436-7287
Everett “Skip” Boise, President Scott Wexler, Executive Director

For Immediate Release: Contact: Vito A. Turso
May 10, 1995 (212) 865-4300

DAY 30:

Smoking Ban Hitting the Bottom Line, Say NYC Restaurateurs

NEW YORK CITY -- It’s been one month since the city-wide restaurant smoking ban took effect
and the New York Tavern & Restaurant Association says a survey it commissioned is proving
the point it made over and over during the protracted City Council hearings that led to the ban:
that an important group of customers to restaurants and bars, and if government
prevents them from being accommodated, restaurants will lose money.

Scott Wexler, the association’s executive director, said the survey his group commissioned
clearly points to the negative impact: the ban is having on business in just the first month. “Our
members told us it was happening,” he said, "and the survey confirms the bad news. Among
those responding, 51 percent thought the city-wide smoking ban had been bad for business, and
41 percent reported lower gross receipts.”

According to Wexler, the survey also shows that, among those reporting gross receipts, as
compared to the same time last year:

•	83 percent said revenue was down by more than five percent.
•	52 percent reported receipts down by greater than 15 percent.

Wexler said these figures were particularly distressing because the last several years have been
the worst in recent memory for the restaurant industry. “Now, with the smoking restrictions in
place, this survey is showing gross receipts are down even more.”

The New York City Restaurant Survey, conducted by the nationally known consulting firm Price
Waterhouse LLP between April 28 and May 5, revealed other key findings:

•	55 percent oppose the new law while only one-third (33 percent) favor it. 11 percent had no
opinion, and one percent indicated they were not told not know;
•	52 percent of those restaurants with bar areas where food is served said more customers have
asked to be seated in the bar area so they can smoke.”

Based on the findings that show gross receipts declining, Wexler said he believes there is another
layer – employees - it just stands to reason if sales drop, “there continue, we may be forced
to layoffs staff,” he added.

Wexler said his and his membership had told council members last year that this badly worded
ban would hurt the industry. "It's a bad law for a bunch of reasons," Wexler said. "The main thing is,
it’s punishing businesses it shouldn’t be. We saw then, as we are seeing now, that this ban will
cause significant hardship if it continues to stay in effect.”

Wexler added that the survey would be sent to every member of the New York State Legislature
to show them what is going on.