OCT-01-96 23:55 ID:HUBERT-GREGORY TEL NO: 206-284-3634 BBS H62

Neighborhood Stores NEWS RELEASE

Contact: DougHenken
(360)753-5177

Neighborhood-Retailers Reject Pierce County Tobacco Ad Ban.

"Ineffective, Illegal, Political Grandstanding at Taxpayer Cost," says Spokesman.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE... Wednesday, October 2, 1996

TACOMA—Sporting "ENOUGH ALREADY!" buttons, the state’s neighborhood retailers turned out in force before the Tacoma-Pierce County Board of Health today to voice their opposition to the Board's proposed resolution severely restricting outdoor tobacco advertising.

Stu Cloud, a board member and spokesman for the Washington State Association of Neighborhood Stores, characterized the proposed restrictions as "nothing more than political grandstanding at taxpayer expense." It’s a media stunt," Cloud said, “contrived by anti-tobacco activists and the Board's outside public relations staff which is poised to spend $275,000 in taxpayer funds to come up with this stuff and promote it.”

Cloud said the proposed regulation won’t curb underage use of tobacco and that it is illegal on a number of counts—from state and federal preempt. "Vapable time and commercial fee appeal and the equal protection clause. Valuable time and money are being wasted at a time when public health and safety needs in Pierce County go begging," he said, “and the costs of potential litigation could run into millions, with no company contriying fees arrangements to carry the burden.”

“This action is a slap in the face to neighborhood retailers and smokers,” Cloud added. "It’s an attempt by politicians to appear as though they are doing something substantive when, in reality, they are wasting taxpayer money on ineffective measures." The Association urges the Board to reject the proposed resolution.

The Washington State Association of Neighborhood Stores represents over 2,000 retail outlets throughout Washington state.



For more information, contact: Doug Cloud (360)753-5177 or
Stu Cloud (206)486-2832.