PLAYER’S
RACING

For immediate release

PLAYER'S RACING PROGRAM WILL HELP ANOTHER CANADIAN DRIVER MOVE UP TO CART CHAMPIONSHIP AFTER MUTUAL DECISION TO PART WAYS WITH GREG MOORE AT THE END OF THE 1999 SEASON.

Detroit, Michigan, August 7, 1999 — The Player’s Racing Program will help yet another Canadian driver move up to CART next season after reaching a mutual decision to part ways with Greg Moore at the end of the 1999 season.

The 24-year-old driver from Maple Ridge, British Columbia, who captured the Indy Lights Championship in his first season with the Player’s/Forsythe Team in 1995, has built up an impressive resume during his four-year tenure behind the wheel of the Player's Champ Car, including a dramatic win at Milwaukee in 1997 which allowed him to become the youngest race winner in CART history.

“You always have mixed emotions when you lose someone of Greg’s stature, who has won five CART races and represents everything you would ever want from a driver, but it also means that the Player's Racing Program will provide yet another talented Canadian driver with the opportunity to make the jump to the CART Championship next season and follow in the footsteps of Jacques Villeneuve, Greg Moore and Patrick Carpentier,” said Mark Thorne, Marketing Communications Manager at Player’s.

Moore, who won the season opener at Homestead and currently sits sixth in the championship standings, echoed those sentiments.

“I wouldn't be am I today if it weren’t for Player’s and Gerry Forsythe, who believed in me and helped me realize my dream of racing in the CART Championship,” said Moore, who will try to put the Player’s Champ Car on the pole for the second straight time this weekend in Detroit. “I have always been a strong proponent of the philosophy behind the Player's Racing Program and I am thrilled that Canadian fans will get to see another home-grown driver reach the pinnacle of the sport next season. Hopefully, this will not be the last Canadian driver to get such an opportunity due to government legislation.” Current legislation will put an end to the sponsorship in the year 2003.

To fill it the vacant seat on the Player’s CART Team for next season, the management of the Player's Racing Program announced that it would hold a CART test in the fall for selected drivers within the player’s program.

-30-

Player’s Racing News Bureau
(213) 627-4949 (514) 938-2311
20648082