Dec 15 1997 14:31:54 Via Fax
DEC 15 '97 02:52PM RLLM ADC

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Monday, December 15, 1997

CONTACT: Scott Williams
202-739-0225
800-912-2926 (pager)
Steve Duchesne
202-739-0245

MASSACHUSETTS CIGARETTE TESTING LAW
HIGHLIGHTS NEED FOR NATIONAL UNIFORM STANDARD

The following statement was released today by Philip Morris Incorporated, R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, and
Liggett Tobacco Company as the companies submitted the results of nicotine tests
required under the new Massachusetts cigarette testing law:

Cigarette testing results submitted to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health
today underscore the critical need for a national tobacco resolution, the nation’s four
largest cigarette manufacturers said today.

The tobacco industry has been publishing nicotine yield information in its advertising
since 1971, in cooperation with the Food and Drug Commission (FDC). The companies
believe that testing of this type should be handled by the federal government and has
warned about the lack of uniform standards in this area. The national tobacco resolution
would provide. This will give consumers more nicotine relative information and clear
information that they can understand. The national resolution would transfer cigarette
testing responsibilities from the FTC to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and
would broaden those responsibilities.

The nicotine information that has been submitted to Massachusetts is different from the
nicotine information provided to the FTC for two important reasons:

*   First, the tests required by Massachusetts are different from the tests currently used by
    the FTC. They use different testing conditions and, therefore, generate different
    results.

*   Second, the FTC method has undergone a rigorous scientific methods validation to
    ensure that test results are consistent from product to product and from laboratory to
    laboratory, but the Massachusetts tests have not. Under the Massachusetts guidelines,
    it is impossible to ensure that different laboratories will obtain the same results even
    when testing the same cigarettes.

Smokers could see one set of ratings in cigarette ads, based on the FTC method, and
another containing a number to make smokers aware, potential for Massachusetts
guidelines. This set of results engage with the cusp, based on 50 states generating
50 different sets of numbers for the same tobacco brands.

The FTC indicated when it initiated its nicotine testing standardizing tests
performed while smoking machines and “sand” and to relative ratings of the various