RICHMOND BRAVES ANNOUNCE
NEW SMOKING ACCOMMODATION POLICY

(Richmond, VA) - The Richmond Braves announce a new smoking
accommodation policy to take effect opening Day, Thursday, April 9th.

Adults who choose to smoke will be accommodated in the concourse areas of all
levels, in the sky boxes and their adjoining patios and in designated areas of the Diamond
Room restaurant. Smoking will no longer be permitted in the seating areas of The
Diamond, including box seats, press box level seats and general admission areas. In
addition, smoking will not be permitted in the concession stand lines, as prescribed by state
law, or the marked handicapped sections.

The change in policy at The Diamond results from a survey of Richmond Braves’
season-ticket holders conducted in the Fall of 1997. A large majority of ticket holders
expressed a preference for a policy that accommodates all fans at The Diamond.

“We want to accommodate all Richmond Braves fans and I think this is a step in the
right direction,” said R-Braves General Manager Bruce Baldwin. “The new policy will
cater to everyone.”

The Braves requested assistance from Philip Morris USA and its Accommodation
Program to help communicate the new policy based on a "Be a Good Sport" theme. By
helping to develop the language for signs on the concourse and in the sky boxes, as well as
other communication materials, Philip Morris USA is helping the Braves inform patrons of
the new smoking accommodation policy. Richmond Braves’ employees will also assist in
directing fans to designated smoking areas. The "Be a Good Sport" theme will be printed
on all ticket stubs to remind R-Braves’ fans of the new policy and encourage them to
clarify that smoking is permitted in the aforementioned areas. The signage will attempt
to designate the non-smoking areas.

“Philip Morris USA believes there are reasonable solutions to accommodating
adults who choose to smoke and those who don't in a variety of public places including
stadiums,” said Don Ison, Director Community Relations, Philip Morris USA. “That’s
why we are pleased to assist the Braves in our hometown, not only on behalf of our
consumers, but the thousands of Philip Morris employees and retirees who are Braves
fans.”

The Richmond Braves are implementing this new policy to provide a pleasant and
comfortable environment for all fans who visit The Diamond. The policy is an extension of
the Richmond Braves’ effort to provide an environment that considers the preferences of
everyone.

For more information call the Richmond Braves at 804-359-6134.

20706343
For information on The Richmond Braves and Philip Morris USA call
285-8888