PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. NEWS RELEASE

Corporate Affairs
120 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
(212) 880-5000
FAX (212) 907-5361

Contact: Mary Carnovale
(917) 663-2523

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. EMBARKS ON A LONG-TERM, COMPREHENSIVE YOUTH SMOKING PREVENTION EFFORT

Youth Smoking Prevention Initiative Will Employ Four Strategies: Communication, Education, Community Action and Access

NEW YORK, November 30, 1998 -- Philip Morris U.S.A. is embarking on a substantial, long-term youth smoking prevention effort. The comprehensive approach will integrate four different strategies: Communication, Education, Community Action and Access. These strategies are designed to work together to help prevent kids from starting to smoke.

“Youth smoking is a complex problem that requires a comprehensive solution,” said Carolyn Levy, Senior Vice President of Youth Smoking Prevention at Philip Morris U.S.A. “Many youth advocates agree that a community-based approach is needed that integrates communication, school-based and community-based programs, and access prevention strategies.”

“The incidence of youth smoking is rising, and as the largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the U.S., we must do more to help prevent kids from starting to smoke. It is in the best interests of our employees, consumers and our shareholders that we take responsible action to reduce youth smoking,” said Levy. “We are committed to measuring the impact of our efforts and applying resources to programs that are the most promising.”

Four Youth Smoking Prevention Strategies

The first phase of Philip Morris U.S.A.’s Communication strategy consists of national television ads, scheduled to begin airing December 7. The ads are designed to convince kids that smoking is not cool, and they do not need to smoke to define themselves. Television commercials directed at teens ages 10-14 will appear on nationwide youth-oriented programming on such networks as ABC, WB, TNT, USA and Fox.

“Utilizing peer-to-peer communication, the ads celebrate adolescents’ decisions not to smoke, to make smart decisions, to think for themselves, to stand up to peer pressure. The ads remind kids the majority of their peers don’t smoke,” said Levy. “The premise is that adolescents respond to positive reinforcement, rather than preaching, to continually sustain their decision not to smoke.”

Consistent with Philip Morris U.S.A.’s focus on applying resources to efforts that are effective in reducing youth smoking, the Company had conducted extensive research on these ads, asking kids if they would consider them persuasive.

207.393786

The Education strategy will involve partnerships with schools and community organizations to provide young people with information about the dangers of smoking.

The Community Action strategy will support grassroots efforts in communities across the country to prevent youth smoking.

The Access prevention strategy will focus on preventing young people from obtaining cigarettes.

About Philip Morris U.S.A.
Philip Morris U.S.A. is the largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States.