MAR-20-15:46 From: T-BB P. 01 Job:27

CONTACT: Dolly Colby, Phillip Morris, 212 879-2144

Peggy Carter, R.I. Reynolds, 910 741-7674

Joe Helwieck, Brown & Williamson, 502 536-7801

Arthur Stevens, Lorillard, 212 545-3000

March 20, 1997

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Statement on Liggett’s Reported Deal with State Attorneys General

The four major U.S. tobacco companies were granted a temporary restraining order this morning by a North Carolina state court to prevent Bennett LeBow, Law his attorneys from turning over material subject to joint attorney-client privilege in the deed media reports allege he has struck with plaintiff's lawyers and attorneys general in a so-called settlement with suits suing this industry. The court filing was made on behalf of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, Lorillard Tobacco Company and Philip Morris Incorporated.

In light of previous assurances given by Liggett’s attorneys that they would not release documents protected by a joint defense privilege and news reports last night indicating LeBow is willing to publish statements inconsistent with his sworn testimony on addiction, smoking and health issues, the tobacco companies were unable to determine which of those inconsistent positions represented Liggett's current intentions and had no choice other than seek judicial intervention.

On Nov. 9, 1993, LeBow testified under oath in a deposition in the Brown case in Florida that he had been two-to-three pack a day smoker for about 15 years and quit “cold turkey.” When asked "You don’t believe that tobacco is addictive," his response was "No, I do not." When asked if smoking caused lung cancer, LeBow responded, "I don't know."

LeBow has publicly acknowledged that his “settlement” last year were nothing more than a ploy to take over R.J.R. Nabisco, Inc. – a ploy that failed. He suspects he is being simply thrown this deal in a desperate attempt to force one of the other cigarette manufacturers to take over his financially troubled and failing tobacco interests. There is a right way and a wrong way to pursue discovery in litigation. The attorneys general are proceeding in a manner inappropriate. We cannot allow them to proceed in an unstudied, reckless fashion to undermine long-settled principles that protect from disclosure materials covered by attorney-client privilege, work product privilege or joint defense privilege, privileges that are available to any citizen – private or corporate – who has hazards to test if legal action.

The suits now being routinely filed against the tobacco industry are so numerous and so costly—to every citizen—that they may not survive a challenge on constitutional grounds. The frivolous nature of these actions is such that they merit dismissal.

Nothing in any negotiated settlement will be disclosed until such time as all relevant documents pertaining to a joint defense have been reviewed.

###

201607404