Office of Communications and Advocacy
1730 Conneticut Avenue, Northwest Suite 510 Washington, DC 20036
Tel 202.785.7900
Fax 202.785.7980
http://www.americanheart.org

American Heart
Association™
Fighting Heart Disease
and Stroke

March 16, 1998

Contact:
Trish Morels (202) 785-7900

Statement of William R.H. Broome, Esq.
American Heart Association
Regarding the Release of Concerns/Insights Between the Public Health
Community and the Tobacco Producers

My name is Bill Broome, and I am a member of the national board of directors for the American Heart
Association. I am speaking with you today as a member of a big farm family. A family that raised tobacco as their
main income crop since World War II and depended on tobacco to survive.

When I was a child in south Florida, my father would take us for summer visits to his birthplace in Aurora,
North Carolina. During those summer vacations, my uncle let me help the farm workers who were pulling tobacco,
tying it on stick and tacking it in barns to be flue cured. He took me out with him at night to check the temperature
in the barn. He took me with him to the auction to sell his truck load of tobacco.

In addition to being tobacco farmers, my father and his three brothers were also life-long smokers. With
the exception of my father, none of his brothers was able to give up his addiction to smoking; None of them reached
the age of 60, sadly they all died of heart disease before their time. My father was able to quit smoking and lived
until he was 77 years old, but he too died an early death from lung cancer.

Today is indeed an historic moment for all parties involved. The seriousness of the tobacco epidemic and
the need for strong policies and programs to discourage and prevent the use of tobacco has put the tobacco farmer in
a difficult situation with difficult choices. The farmer has had virtually no real options to get out of the tobacco
business. I commend the tobacco growers and tobacco growing groups who have gone on a limb to work
constructively with the health community to achieve common public health goals. Do not doubt for one second that
their support for public health is sincere, and do not doubt for one second that our concern for their well being is
sincere.

207142680