BRITISH
COLUMBIA

NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
JUNE 22, 1998 1998:128

B.C. TO FORCE TOBACCO COMPANIES TO REPORT SMOKE POISONS

VANCOUVER – Health Minister Penny Priddy today announced new regulations that will force tobacco companies to report additives and ingredients in cigarettes and to test their cigarettes for toxic chemicals.

“British Columbia is imposing the strongest reporting demands in the world on the tobacco industry,” Priddy said. “We will be the first jurisdiction anywhere to require tobacco companies to release detailed information about the poisons in tobacco smoke.”

Priddy said the new regulations represent two major advances in controlling the tobacco industry and improving public health – complete disclosure of all additives and ingredients in cigarettes, cigarette papers and cigarette filters, and disclosure of many of the poisons in tobacco smoke.

“This is another step forward in our government’s strategy to reduce tobacco use and protect B.C. kids from tobacco,” Priddy said. “These regulations will hold the tobacco industry more accountable for the products it sells.”

The new regulations will take effect when Bill 28, the Tobacco Sales Amendment Act comes into force, expected later this summer. They include:

•	By Sept. 15, tobacco companies must disclose all additives and ingredients in each cigarette brand, including the chemicals used to treat papers and filters.

•	Beginning Oct. 31, tobacco companies must provide reports on 44 selected poisons found in tobacco smoke, using test procedures developed by Health Canada. In addition to tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide, the chemicals to be measured include the carcinogens arsenic, benzene, benzo(a)pyrene, cadmium, hydrogen cyanide and toluene.

•	The regulations require these reports for all cigarette brands with a market share greater than two per cent to be filed by Oct. 31 – this includes about 11 brands representing 50 per cent of the cigarette market in B.C. Results for brands with a market share between one and two per cent must be reported by Feb. 28, 1999, and results for all remaining brands must be reported by June 30, 1999.

-more-