Draft
12/2/97 6:44 PM

MASSACHUSETTS CIGARETTE DISCLOSURE LAW
HIGHLIGHTS NEED FOR NATIONAL, UNIFORM STANDARDS

BOSTON, December 15, 1997— The following statement was issued on behalf of Brown
& Williamson Tobacco Corporation, Lorillard Tobacco Company, Philip Morris
Inc., Incorporated, and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company:

We agree that information about the nicotine yields of cigarettes should be made
available to the public; and that cigarette ingredients should be evaluated by the
Government. We believe that such information should be handled by the federal
government in a manner that is rational and fair, and that there should be national,
uniform standards of evaluation in these areas that consumers across the country can
understand and rely upon. [We do not believe states should publish conflicting
information about these subjects that may confuse adults who choose to smoke.]

We enthusiastically support the publication of nicotine yield information, and indeed
have been doing so in our advertising in cooperation with the Federal Trade Commission
(FTC) since 19XX.[Although our products have not changed, Massachusetts will be
publishing nicotine yield information for our best selling brands that will appear to be
substantially different from the yields as measured under the FTC method. This is
because the Commonwealth has devised a measurement system that is different from the
one utilized in connection with the national system.

However, both methods utilize smoking machines rather than smokers to collect data. Indeed, the FTC has noted that “no test can precisely duplicate conditions of actual
human smoking and, within fairly wide limits, no one method can be said to either
‘right’ or ‘wrong.’”

Rather than predicting how much actual nicotine a given smoker will "get" on a given
day, we believe that the value of these tests is to provide a relative ranking of the various
brand styles using standardized measurements—a system in the same way that the national
car mileage rating provides relative data for different brands of cars. Therefore, it is
important to note that, under the Commonwealth’s new system, the relative yields of
the various tested brands appear to be virtually unchanged. For example, under the FTC
method; a standard Light cigarette yield 7Xmg nicotine than a full-flavor cigarette,
whereas under the Massachusetts scheme the difference is XX%.

We regret any confusion that the Commonwealth may cause our consumers and we hope
that they are not misled into believing that the modifying ingredients indicate any change
for their benefit or our profit.



[12/2/97] – 314317

DRAFT