Services of Mead Data Central, Inc.

PAGE 1

LEVEL 1 - 1 OF 1 STORY

The Associated Press

The materials in the AP file were compiled by The Associated Press. These materials may not be republished without the express written consent of The Associated Press.

February 7, 1992, Friday, AM cycle

SECTION: Business News

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris, RJ Reynolds Agree to Put Warnings on All Cigarette Packs

BYLINE: By SKIP WOLLENBERG, AP Business Writer

DATELINE: NEW YORK

KEYWORD: Cigarette-Labels

BODY:

Tobacco giants Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco will start putting warning labels on all their cigarette packages, amid mounting criticism over sales of unlabeled smokes in some developing countries.

Spokesmen for the companies said Friday they hoped to have health warnings on all of their cigarette packages within a year. Health warnings have been required on cigarettes sold in the United States since the mid-1960s.

Markets where no labels are currently required include the Philippines, the Dominican Republic, Lebanon, Morocco and Yugoslavia.

The tobacco companies downplayed the significance of their moves, saying unlabeled cigarettes make up only a small portion of their sales.

The decisions were nonetheless welcomed by a coalition of church groups that has been pushing for health warnings for more than a decade.

Philip Morris is the biggest U.S. tobacco maker and its brands include Marlboro and Virginia Slims. Reynolds' brands include Winston, Camel and Salem.

Diane Bratcher, a spokeswoman for the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, said labels help people "make informed decisions when they decide to smoke." She said some smokers in countries where warnings are not carried may be completely unaware of the health risks.

The policy change at Philip Morris International was disclosed by a Milwaukee priest who said he had been informed that the company would begin putting warning labels on cigarette packages that do no currently carry them.

The Rev. Michael Crosby, a spokesman for the Midwest Province of the Capuchin Order, which owns shares in Philip Morris, said the order has been pressing the tobacco company to make the move since 1980.

LEXIS NEXIS LEXIS NEXIS