MAR 23:93:SPARTANBURG, TOBACCO SUIT RELATED TO 91510736817
P.R./18.8/17

BRITISH AMERICAN
TOBACCO

news release

8 March 1989

Europe’s largest ever passive smoking study has failed to
establish a meaningful risk of lung cancer to non-smokers.

The ten year study, which was commissioned by the World Health Organisation and involved
seven centres in seven countries, has cast further doubt on the status of passive smoking as
a cause of disease.

Dr Chris Proctor, Head of Science for British American Tobacco said: “New scientific research
from the World Health Organisation has shown the risk of lung cancer from environmental
tobacco smoke to be either non-existent or too small to be measured at a meaningful level.”

The study found that if there is any lung cancer risk at all to non-smokers from smoke in the
air, it is so small that it was unquantifiable at any meaningful level.

The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) parts of the World Health
Organisation, in its Monograph 1985/1987 it reports the results of a study of non-
smokers from seven European countries, including the UK.

The statistical study compared samples of the non-smoking population in areas if living, working
or growing up with smokers, and those living, working or growing up without smokers. The data revealed by
IARC found no statistically valid increase of risk for lung cancer among non-smokers.

Dr Chris Proctor said: “This study from the World Health Organisation is the largest ever
undertaken on environmental tobacco smoke in Europe. This study cannot find any
statistically valid risk, you have to ask whether there can be any risk at all.”

In short, the study failed to find any statistically valid increase in lung cancer risk in non-
smokers who have lived, worked or grown up with smokers.

Dr Chris Proctor said: “We welcome this new study which confirms what we and other
scientists have long believed, that while smoking may annoy some non-smokers, the science
does not show that being around a smoker is a lung cancer risk.”

This IARC study represents many years of research. Whether it is considered alone, or as
one element of a larger body of evidence over the past 17 years, the data does not show
any meaningful increase in risk of lung cancer for a non-smoker exposed to environmental
tobacco smoke."

– ENDS –

British American Tobacco Spokespeople are available for interview as
a Beta Tape with background footage and a pre-recorded interview with
Dr Chris Proctor is also available. Please contact:

Jane A. Robertson (PR)
British American Tobacco
Tel: 01737 856141

Further information from British American Tobacco can be obtained from:
Angela Cox (PR)
British American Tobacco
Tel: 01737 856141



8581461