FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
January 16, 1998

CONTACT: Scott Williams
202/739-0225
Steve Duchesne
202/739-0245
Bozell Sawyer Miller Group

Washington, D.C. – The following statement regarding the settlement of pending
litigation in Texas was issued today by Philip Morris Incorporated; R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company; Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation; the Lorillard
Tobacco Company; and United States Tobacco Company:

Today’s settlement with the State of Texas again demonstrates that the industry is
prepared to cooperate with government and public health authorities to discourage
 underage tobacco use.

While today's agreement is important, we continue to believe the best course of action is
adoption of the proposed national resolution now pending before Congress. Individual
state settlements cannot incorporate nor implement the comprehensive array of public
health provisions contained in the proposed national settlement, which addresses all of
the issues involving the regulation and sale of, and liability for, tobacco.

This settlement represents another step in a process to end the climate of confrontation
and litigation that has marked the national debate on tobacco-related issues for decades.
While this case dealt with specific concerns of the State of Texas, the national resolution
represents the best opportunity to achieve immediate and meaningful resolution of
outstanding issues regarding tobacco, including what many believe will be a reduction in
the use of tobacco products by minors while preserving the rights of adults to use
tobacco.

The settlement provides Texas with an up-front payment of $725 million. The industry
will also provide $264 million in fund state pilot programs, including research and anti-
youth smoking initiatives. Commencing in November 1998, the companies will pay
Texas a 7.25 percent share of the annual ongoing payments that are contemplated to be
paid to the states. Without giving effect to adjustments for inflation and changes in sales
volume, this would result in payments to Texas of $230 million in 1998 and $264 million
in 1999. These payments would increase to $580 million by the sixth year and continue
at that level thereafter. Giving effect to other adjustments, Texas will receive $1.27
billion from the settlement in 1998. Over the next 25 years, Texas will receive $14.5
billion for health care costs, subject to adjustment for inflation and changes in sales volume.

- more -

8354276A