Lexington Books

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JANUARY 11, 1990

PROCEEDINGS OF INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO
SMOKE PROVIDES FRESH VIEWS AND PERSPECTIVE

The relationship between environmental tobacco smoke (ETS)
and claims of health effects has been the subject of substantial
controversy during the past several years. The scientific
evidence on ETS exposure was the topic of discussion at a major
international symposium November 3 and 4, 1989, held at McGill
University in Montreal, Canada.

In this forum for an open exchange of ideas and research
results, the symposium participants assessed the data on ETS,
including data that have become available since the widely
publicized U.S. Surgeon General’s report in 1986, and explored
directions for future research initiatives. ENVIRONMENTAL
TOBACCO SMOKE: Proceedings of the International Symposium at
McGill University, 1989 (Lexington Books), presents a complete
record of the presentations and debate of this international
scientific meeting. The symposium was attended by more than 80
scientists from more than 20 countries.

While not geared toward a general distribution, the book’s
presentation of discussions and conclusions should be of
great interest to members of the scientific community,
journalists, policy makers and others who have been following the
ETS debate.

The McGill symposium addressed the health claims that have
been made regarding ETS and other related scientific matters.
The symposium also covered a variety of issues relating to the
“sick building syndrome,” including techniques to deal with this
important issue.

Among the conclusions reached at the McGill symposium are the
following:

- Of the 23 epidemiologic studies on the issue of ETS exposure
and positive lung cancer, only five reported statistically
positive associations at the 5% level. The other 18 studies
reported relative risk increases or decreases that were not
statistically significant. In light of these and other factors,
it was concluded that the claim that ETS increases the risk of
nonsmoker lung cancer cannot be supported by the available data.

A review of the nine studies dealing with ETS exposure and
even weaker than of the lung cancer that lung cancer studies are
no demonstrating associations. U.S. Surgeon General’s 1986 conclusion
to tend to support the U.S.

DC Heath and Company, 125 Spring Street, Lexington, Massachusetts 02420